JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 19-24, passed 11-12-2024
State legislation current through ALS 2024 Pamphlet No. 5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
JOHNSTON CITY
CITY COUNCIL
Mayor          Douglas Dobbins
               
Alderman       William Hatfield
Alderman       Dwight Hoffard
Alderman       Scott Kee
Alderman       Anthony Emery
Alderman       Alan Peebels
Alderman       William Carmickle
Alderman       Samantha Davis
Alderman       Jennifer Willis
               
CITYADMINISTRATION
City Attorney  Jonathan Cantrell
City Clerk     Jade West
City Treasurer Tina Lindsey
Police Chief   JD Barter
Fire Chief     Tom Burton
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 08-16
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Johnston City has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and for publication of such ordinances in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for, the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at the earliest date possible.
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF JOHNSTON
CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Johnston City as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Johnston City."
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         TITLE   I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
 
         TITLE   III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   General Provisions
 
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.      Garbage Collection
         51.      Waterworks and Sewage Department
         52.      Rates and Regulations
         53.      Water System
         54.      Utility Rates
         55.      Sewer Systems
         56.      Building Regulations
         57.      Development Codes
         58.      Floodplain Code
         59.      Property Maintenance Code
         60.      Subdivision Code
         61.      Zoning Code
 
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.      General Regulations
         71.      Stop and Through Streets
         72.      Driving Rules
         73.      Equipment of Vehicles
         74.      Parking Rules
         75.      Abandoned Vehicles
         76.      Snow Routes
         78.      Traffic Schedules
         79.      Parking Schedules
 
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.      Animals
         91.      Cemetery
         92.      Fair Housing
         93.      Library
         94.      Nuisances
         95.      Parks and Recreation
         96.      Street Regulations
 
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Business Code
         111.   Liquor
 
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   General Provisions
         131.   Offenses Generally
         132.   Offenses Against Property
         133.   Public Health, Safety and Decency
         134.   Litter Code
         135.   Trespass
         136.   Parental Responsibility
         137.   Obscenity
         138.   Fireworks
         139.   Drug Paraphernalia
 
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Regulations
         151.   Development Codes
         152.   Floodplain Code
         153.   Property Maintenance Code
         154.   Subdivision Code
         155.   Zoning Code
 
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         I.   Annexations
         II.   Enterprise Zone
         III.   Franchises
         IV.   Surplus Property
         V.   Tax Increment Financing
         VI.   Vacations
 
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
         References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
         References to 1999 Code
         References to Ordinances
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting, easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Council and the Mayor and the City Clerk is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Williamson County Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately following its
passage and approval in accordance with law.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF T HE CITY OF JOHNSTON
CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS, THIS  10th  day of MAY, 2016.
                                       Jim Mitchell /s/
                                       Jim Mitchell, City of Johnston City,
Mayor
ATTEST:
Tim Ditch /s/
Tim Ditch, City Clerk
CERTIFICATION
   I, Tim Ditch, City Clerk of the City of Johnston City, Williamson County,
Illinois, do hereby certify the foregoing Ordinance  # 08-16 , is the true and
correct original ordinance passed and approved by the Johnston City City
Council at the regular meeting duly convened on  May 10th, 2016 .
                                          Tim Ditch, City Clerk
[SEAL]
                                          ORDINANCE NO.  08-16
ORDINANCE 03-18
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE JOHNSTON CITY CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Johnston City to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, this supplement in its entirety is necessary to provide for the
usual daily operation of the Johnston City and for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the municipality
that this ordinance take effect upon passage.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto as “Exhibit A” is hereby adopted by reference.
   Section 2.   Such supplement, in its entirety, ___________ ( ) pages, shall
be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval and is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Johnston
City Code of Ordinances to be kept on file at the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   That for this ordinance, the definitions as written in this
code shall apply unless the text clearly indicates a different meaning.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk be and is directed hereby to publish this
ordinance in pamphlet form pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately following its passage and approval in accordance with the statutes
of the State of Illinois.
THE AMENDED ORDINANCE AS STYLED ABOVE WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS ______ DAY OF ___________, 2018; AND APPROVED BY
THE MAYOR OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS _____ DAY OF ___________, 2018; AND PLACED ON
FILE THIS _____ DAY OF _____________, 2018.
 
                                    _______________________________________
                                    JIM MITCHELL, JOHNSTON CITY MAYOR
 
ATTEST:
________________________
TIM DITCH, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE 03-19
      AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE JOHNSTON CITY CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS
      
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances; AND
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Johnston City to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; AND
   WHEREAS, this supplement in its entirety is necessary to provide for the
usual daily operation of the Johnston City and for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the municipality
that this ordinance take effect upon passage:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto as “Exhibit A” is hereby adopted by reference.
   Section 2.   Such supplement, in its entirety, one hundred sixty-two (162)
pages, shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval and
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Johnston City Code of Ordinances to be kept on file at the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   That for this ordinance, the definitions as written in this
code shall apply unless the text clearly indicates a different meaning.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk be and is directed hereby to publish this
ordinance in pamphlet form pursuant to the statutes of the State of Illinois
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4).
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately following its passage and approval in accordance with the statutes
of the State of Illinois.
THE AMENDED ORDINANCE AS STYLED ABOVE WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS 12th DAY OF March, 2019; AND
APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS 12th DAY OF March, 2019; AND
PLACED ON FILE THIS 14th DAY OF March, 2019.
                                    Douglas A. Dobbins /s/
                                    DOUG DOBBINS, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jade West /s/
JADE WEST, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 01-20
      AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE JOHNSTON CITY CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Johnston City code of Ordinances; AND
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Johnston City to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; AND
   WHEREAS, this supplement in its entirety is necessary to provide for the
usual daily operation of Johnston City and for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality that
this ordinance take effect upon passage:
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS;
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto as “Exhibit A” is hereby adopted by reference.
   Section 2.   That such supplement in its entirety, thirty two (32) pages,
shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval and is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Johnston City Code of Ordinances to be kept on file at the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   That for the purpose of this ordinance, the definitions as
written in this code shall apply unless the text clearly indicates a different
meaning.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk be and is directed hereby to publish this
ordinance in pamphlet form pursuant to the Statutes of the State of Illinois
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4).
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately following its passage and approval in accordance with the Statutes
of the State of Illinois.
THE AMENDED ORDINANCE AS STYLED ABOVE WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  14th  DAY OF  January , 2020; AND
APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  14th  DAY OF  January , 2020; AND
PLACED ON FILE THIS  14th  DAY OF  January , 2020.
                           Douglas A. Dobbins /s/
                           DOUGLAS DOBBINS, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jade West /s/
JADE WEST, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 02-21
      AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE JOHNSTON CITY CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances; AND
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Johnston City to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; AND
   WHEREAS, this supplement in its entirety is necessary to provide for the
usual daily operation of Johnston City and for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality that
this ordinance take effect upon passage:
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS;
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto as "Exhibit A" is hereby adopted by reference.
   Section 2.   That such supplement in its entirety, 18 pages, shall be deemed
published as of the day of its adoption and approval and is hereby authorized
and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Johnston City Code
of Ordinances to be kept on file at the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   That for the purpose of this ordinance, the definitions as
written in this code shall apply unless the text clearly indicates a different
meaning.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk be and is directed hereby to publish this
ordinance in pamphlet form pursuant to the Statutes of the State of Illinois
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4).
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately following its passage and approval in accordance with the Statutes
of the State of Illinois.
THE AMENDED ORDINANCE AS STYLED ABOVE WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  9th  DAY OF  February , 2021; AND
APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  9th  DAY OF  February , 2021; AND
PLACED ON FILE THIS  9th  DAY OF  February , 2021.
                        Douglas A. Dobbins /s/
                        DOUGLAS DOBBINS, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jade West /s/
JADE WEST, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 03-22
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE JOHNSTON CITY CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Johnston City code of Ordinances; AND
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Johnston City to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; AND
   WHEREAS, this supplement in its entirety is necessary to provide for the
usual daily operation of Johnston City and for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality that
this ordinance take effect upon passage:
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS;
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto as "Exhibit A" is hereby adopted by reference.
   Section 2.   That such supplement in its entirety, thirty two (32) pages,
shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval and is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Johnston City Code of Ordinances to be kept on file at the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   That for the purpose of this ordinance, the definitions as
written in this code shall apply unless the text clearly indicates a different
meaning.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk be and is directed hereby to publish this
ordinance in pamphlet form pursuant to the Statutes of the State of Illinois
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4).
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately following its passage and approval in accordance with the Statutes
of the State of Illinois.
THE AMENDED ORDINANCE AS STYLED ABOVE WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  8th  DAY OF  March , 2022; AND
APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  8th  DAY OF  March , 2022; AND
PLACED ON FILE THIS  8th  DAY OF  March , 2022.
                                    Douglas A. Dobbins /s/
                                    DOUGLAS DOBBINS, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jade West /s/
JADE WEST, CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 01-24
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE JOHNSTON CITY CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Johnston City code of Ordinances; AND
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Johnston City to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois; AND
   WHEREAS, this supplement in its entirety is necessary to provide for the
usual daily operation of Johnston City and for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the municipality that
this ordinance take effect upon passage:
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
JOHNSTON CITY, WILLIAMSON COUNTY, ILLINOIS;
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Johnston City Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto as "Exhibit A" is hereby adopted by reference.
   Section 2.   That such supplement in its entirety, twenty one (21) pages,
shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and approval and is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Johnston City Code of Ordinances to be kept on file at the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   That for the purpose of this ordinance, the definitions as
written in this code shall apply unless the text clearly indicates a different
meaning.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk be and is directed hereby to publish this
ordinance in pamphlet form pursuant to the Statutes of the State of Illinois
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4).
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately following its passage and approval in accordance with the Statutes
of the State of Illinois.
THE AMENDED ORDINANCE AS STYLED ABOVE WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  9th  DAY OF  January , 2024; AND
APPROVED BY THE MAYOR OF JOHNSTON CITY THIS  9th  DAY OF  January , 2024; AND
PLACED ON FILE THIS  16th  DAY OF  January , 2024.
                                    Douglas A. Dobbins /s/
                                    DOUGLAS DOBBINS, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jade West /s/
JADE WEST, CITY CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Jurisdiction
   
10.19   Public utility ordinances
   
10.20   Court proceedings
   
10.21   Liability of officers
   
10.22   License
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Johnston City shall be designated
as the Code of Johnston City, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons, but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Johnston City,
Illinois, irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and the City Council.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Johnston City.
   COUNTY. Williamson County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Williamson County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(5 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
city”.
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the city for carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. Shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the
following year.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or mission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the city and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the City Council
in the employee agreement.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Johnston City.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Import or want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent human ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a hazard
to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
      (1)   Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer or
employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
“of the city” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee of this city
having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
      (2)   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the City Council to impose such a fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of city business, except during applicable Daylight Savings Time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the city shall be set and run at
the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Johnston City. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be: in the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or an electronic signature as defined
in the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by
law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(1999 Code, § 1-1-16)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 7/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Such references shall also include the designee or agent of any such
officer or office, unless the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.18 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Provisions of this code also apply to acts performed outside the
corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law, where the law confers
power on the city to regulate such particular acts outside the corporate
limits.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.19 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-9)
§ 10.20 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any claim
arising under the former ordinance or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-10)
§ 10.21 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   The failure of any officer or employee to perform any official duty imposed
by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed
for violation of this code, unless a penalty is specifically provided for.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-24)
§ 10.22 LICENSE.
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him or her by the city may be revoked by the court
or by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-1-25)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this city
for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined not more
than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   EMPLOYEES
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Wards
   
30.01   Generally
Identity Protection Policy
   
30.05   Identity protection policy
Management Association
   
30.15   Participation
   
30.16   Contribution
City Contract Bids
   
30.30   Purpose
   
30.31   Specific terms
Sale, Lease or Exchange of City Personal Property
   
30.45   Surplus stock
   
30.46   Sales and exchanges authorized
   
30.47   Notice of intended sale or exchange of real property
   
30.48   Bidding and auction procedures
Ethics Code
   
30.65   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment
   
30.70   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Chapter 31
   Boards and commissions, see
Chapter 32
   Employees, see
Chapter 33
   Public safety, see
Chapter 34
   Taxation, see
Chapter 35
WARDS
§ 30.01 GENERALLY.
   The city shall be and it is hereby divided into four wards, which wards
shall be known and designated as follows: First Ward, Second Ward, Third Ward
and Fourth Ward.
   (A)   The First Ward shall comprise all the territory within the corporate
limits of the city lying and being south of the center of Broadway Street from
east and west city limits.
   (B)   The Second Ward shall comprise all of the territory south from the
center of Ninth Street to the center of Broadway Street from east and west city
limits.
   (C)   The Third Ward shall comprise all the territory east of the center of
the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad track as now located, and north of
the center of Ninth Street to the east and north city limits.
   (D)   The Fourth Ward shall comprise all the territory west of the center of
the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad track, as now located, and north of
the center of Ninth Street to the west and north city limits.
(1999 Code, § 1-4-1)
IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY
§ 30.05 IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The city adopts this identity protection policy pursuant to the
Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/1. The Act requires each local government
agency in Illinois to draft, approve, and implement an identity protection
policy to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the social security
numbers that agencies collect, maintain, and use.
      (2)   The purpose of this policy is to set forth the procedures and
restrictions that must be observed by all officials and employees of the city
regarding the use of social security numbers belonging to city employees and
the public.
   (B)   Access to social security numbers.
      (1)   Limited access. Only those officials and employees who are required
to use or handle information or documents that contain social security numbers
in the course of performing their duties will have access to such information
or documents.
      (2)   Training. All city officials and employees who have access to
social security numbers will receive instruction on the proper handling of
information that contains social security numbers.
   (C)   Displaying or printing social security numbers. The city shall not:
      (1)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's
social security number. PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY means to
intentionally communicate or otherwise intentionally make available to the
general public;
      (2)   Print an individual's social security number on any card required
for an individual to access products or services provided by the city;
      (3)   Require an individual to transmit a social security number over the
internet, unless the connection is secure or the social security number is
encrypted; and/or
      (4)   Print an individual's social security number on any materials that
are mailed through the U.S. Postal Service, any private mail service,
electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state of federal law
requires the social security number to be on the document to be mailed, such as
in forms sent by mail in connection with the Unemployment Insurance Act, the
Department of Revenue, the Social Security Administration, or the Illinois
State Disbursement Unit.
   (D)   Collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers. 
      (1)   The city shall not:
         (a)   Collect, use, or disclose social security numbers from
individuals unless:
            1.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations; or the collection, use, or disclosure of the social security
number is otherwise necessary for the performance of the city's duties and
responsibilities;
            2.   The need and purpose for the social security number is
documented before its collection; and
            3.   The social security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose;
         (b)   Require an individual to use his or her social security number
to access an internet website; or
         (c)   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      (2)   Exceptions. The disclosure of social security numbers to agents,
employees, contractors, or subcontractors of a governmental entity, or
disclosure by a governmental entity to another governmental entity or its
agents, employees, contractors, or subcontractors, provided that:
         (a)   Disclosure is necessary to perform its duties;
         (b)   Disclosure of the social security number is pursuant to a court
order, warrant, or subpoena;
         (c)   Collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of state and local governmental employees, persons
committed to correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement
facilities or retention centers and wards of the state;
         (d)   The collection, use, or disclosure of social security numbers
for internal verification or administrative purposes;
         (e)   The disclosure of social security numbers to any entity for the
collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or investigation of
fraud; and/or
         (f)   To investigate or prevent fraud, to conduct background checks,
collect debt, obtain a credit report, or to assist in locating a missing
person, lost relative, or a person who is due a state or federal benefit.
   (E)   Requirement to redact social security numbers.
      (1)   The city shall comply with the provisions of any other state law
with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of information or
documents containing all or any portion of an individual's social security
number. The city shall redact social security numbers from all information or
documents before allowing the public inspection or copying of the information
or documents.
      (2)   When collecting social security numbers, the city shall request
each social security number in a manner that makes the social security number
easily redacted if required to be released as part of a public records request.
   (F)   Training and oversight. All staff and third party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
   (G)   Department responsibilities and compliance. The city must ensure that
the procedures and restrictions stated in this policy are explained to all
employees. Penalties for a violation of this policy include disciplinary action
up to and including termination and/or criminal prosecution as provided in the
Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/45.
(Ord. 04-18, passed 2-13-2018)
MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
§ 30.15 PARTICIPATION.
   The City Council does hereby authorize and approve membership in the
Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association and directs the Mayor and
Clerk to execute an intergovernmental cooperation contract with the State
Municipal League Risk Management Association for membership on an annual basis
and each year thereafter unless this subchapter is repealed.
(1999 Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.16 CONTRIBUTION.
   Each member hereby agrees to contribute to the Association a sum of money to
be determined by the Association at the time of its annual renewal based on the
needs of the Association and the loss experience of the member, which sum shall
constitute the cost of the member’s contribution for membership in the
Association.
(1999 Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 03-04, passed 3-23-2004)
CITY CONTRACT BIDS
§ 30.30 PURPOSE.
   The city, a municipal corporation, in its role as a proprietor and purchaser
within the context of public construction projects, is desirous of obtaining
the benefits of predictable labor costs, of a steady supply of skilled labor,
of continuous construction services, without interruption and without delay
from causes such as labor disputes. See §
31.063.
(1999 Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.31 SPECIFIC TERMS.
   For any and all construction for which the city solicits, reviews and/or
awards bids for completion of said construction projects, said bid
specifications shall contain the following provision: “Each successful bidder
and any and all levels of subcontractors, as a condition of being awarded a
contract or subcontract, will agree to abide by and be subject to a union
security clause recognizing the AFL-CIO Construction Trades Crafts as the
exclusive bargaining representative for all employees performing work
traditionally within the laborers’ crafts jurisdiction; and that each
successful bidder and any and all levels of subcontractors, as a condition of
being awarded a contract or subcontract to perform work traditionally within
the laborers’ crafts jurisdiction, shall agree to abide by the provision of the
Articles of Construction Agreement of the AFL-CIO Construction Trades Crafts.”
(1999 Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 3-93, passed 5-27-1993)
SALE, LEASE OR EXCHANGE OF CITY PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 30.45 SURPLUS STOCK.
   (A)   All directors of departments shall submit to the City Council, at such
times and in such form as they may prescribe, inventories including reports
showing stocks of all supplies and equipment which are no longer used or which
have become obsolete, worn out or scrapped.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the authority to transfer surplus supplies and
equipment from one department to another with the advice and consent of the
City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.46 SALES AND EXCHANGES AUTHORIZED.
   When the City Council has determined that the sale or exchange of any
personal or real property owned by the city will be in the best interest of the
city, it may:
   (A)   Sell such property at public auction, in the manner provided in §
30.47;
   (B)   Authorize the Mayor to negotiate the sale or exchange of such property
subject to the approval and acceptance by the Council;
   (C)   Exchange such property for other personal or real property of
substantially equal value, or for other personal property plus an amount of
money equal to the difference in value or for equipment and/or supplies and/or
services of substantially equal value, if it has also determined that the
acquisition of such other personal property will be in the best interests of
the city; and
   (D)   Sell such property at a public sale in the manner provided in §
30.47.
(1999 Code, § 1-7-2) (Ord. 18-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 30.47 NOTICE OF INTENDED SALE OR EXCHANGE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Before the City Council sells or exchanges any real property as provided in
§
30.46(A), (B), (C) and (D), it shall publish a notice of its intention to sell
or exchange at least once in a newspaper with a general circulation within the
city or county.
   (A)   An auction sale, such notice shall state the date, time and place of
the proposed sale and the place where and the time within which written bids
and deposits may be made pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   A sale, through the Mayor, such notice shall invite persons to
negotiate with the Mayor.
   (C)   An exchange, such notice shall call for offers of exchanges or a
combination of cash and exchange or a combination of equipment, supplies or
services and shall state the date, time and place of the proposed exchange and
the place where and the time within which written offers may be made and the
increment set by the City Council which will be used in calling for further
oral bids and offers, pursuant to this subchapter.
   (D)   A public sale and notice shall state the date, time and place of the
opening of bids and the place and time within which written bids and deposits
may be made.
(1999 Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 30.48 BIDDING AND AUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All bids and offers to purchase or exchange submitted in response to a
notice given pursuant to §
30.47(A) and (D) shall be in writing, sealed with the envelope identifying the
property the subject of the bid and addressed to the City Council and comply
with all other terms and conditions specified or referred to in the notice. All
bids or offers which propose payment of money shall be accompanied by a deposit
of 10% of the total money to be paid either in cash or cashier’s check made
payable to the order of the city, which deposit will be refunded if the bid or
offer is not accepted. All bids shall be submitted to the City Clerk during
regular city office hours. Any written offers or bids submitted or received at
the city office after the time set for receipt of bids in the notice of such
sale or exchange will not be considered and any such late bidder shall not be
permitted to make oral bids hereinafter provided.
   (B)   At the time and place fixed in the notice for the sale or exchange,
all written sealed bids and offers which have been timely received shall, in
public session, be opened, examined and declared by the Council.
   (C)   In all sales or exchanges, the Council reserves the right to take into
consideration, in addition to price or property value offered, all factors
involved in the transaction, including, but not limited to: the proposed use of
the property; the reputation, responsibility, character and integrity of the
proposed buyer; the possible impacts or effects upon the city and its
facilities, utilities, services, inhabitants, planning and zoning and the
relative benefits that may accrue to the city or its inhabitants as the result
of the transaction, and the Council may accept a bid or offer which is not the
highest if the Council finds that the best interests of the city or its
inhabitants will be served thereby. Any final acceptance by the Council may be
made either at the same session or at any continued session of the same meeting
held within the 14 days next following. The Council may, either at the same
session or at any continued session of the same meeting held within the 14 days
next following, if it deems such action to be for the best public interest,
reject any and all bids and offers, either written or oral, and withdraw the
property from sale or exchange. The Council may, thereafter, if it desires, re-
institute proceedings to make such sale or exchange upon the giving of new
notice thereof in the manner provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   Upon acceptance by the Council of any bid or offer, the Mayor and City
Clerk are authorized to execute and deliver all documents and instruments
necessary to carry out and complete such sale or exchange on behalf of the
Council and the city in accordance with the terms and conditions of the sale or
exchange.
   (E)   If the successful bidder shall fail, refuse or neglect to complete the
transaction and make all payments and fully perform all terms and conditions of
the transaction which are to be performed by such bidder within 30 calendar
days after the acceptance of the bid or offer, unless otherwise specified in
the written notice to bid, all deposits made by such successful bidder shall be
forfeited to the city, the contract and transactions shall be deemed rescinded
and the Council may accept what is deemed by it to be the next best bid or
offer, or deem all bids and offers rejected and the property withdrawn from
such sale or exchange.
(1999 Code, § 1-7-4) (Ord. 10-08, passed 6-24-2008)
ETHICS CODE
§ 30.65 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of §§ 5 through 15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5
ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section)
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the city to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or
vice-presidential electors, but does not include activities:
         (a)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action;
         (b)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
         (c)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official
duties.
      CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
      COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in the
Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315/3.
      COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
section, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
      COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
      CONTRIBUTION. The same meaning as that term is defined in the Election
Code, 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
      EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the city, whether on a fulltime or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
      EMPLOYER. The City of Johnston City.
      GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan,
forbearance, or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value
including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking
engagements related to or attributable to government employment or the official
position of an officer or employee.
      LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
         (a)   Compensation for employment;
         (b)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
         (c)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
      OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office
created by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is
compensated for service in his or her official capacity.
      POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
         (a)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action;
         (b)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
         (c)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official
duties.
      POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under the
Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/9-3, but only with regard to those activities that
require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk.
      PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
         (a)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event;
         (b)   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event;
         (c)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any
document or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign
contribution;
         (d)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll
in connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
         (e)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual
voters in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a
campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for
political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
         (f)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any
political organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
         (g)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or
a political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping
in an effort to get voters to the polls;
         (h)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing,
or filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
         (i)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective
office in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
         (j)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
         (k)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
         (l)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
         (m)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
         (n)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention;
         (o)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
      PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
         (a)   Is seeking official action:
            1.   By an officer; or
            2.   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee
directing that employee;
         (b)   Does business or seeks to do business:
            1.   With the officer; or
            2.   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee
directing that employee;
         (c)   Conducts activities regulated:
            1.   By the officer; or
            2.   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee
directing that employee; or
         (d)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the
performance or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or
employee.
   (C)   Prohibited political activities.
      (1)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the city in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
      (2)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
         (a)   As part of that officer or employee's duties;
         (b)   As a condition of employment; or
         (c)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
      (3)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
      (4)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible
for an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties,
or activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary
basis which are not prohibited by this section.
      (5)   No person either:
         (a)   In a position that is subject to recognized merit principles of
public employment; or
         (b)   In a position the salary for which is paid in whole or in part
by federal funds and that is subject to the Federal Standards for a Merit
System of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-in-aid programs, shall
be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because he or she is a
member or an officer of a political committee, of a political party, or of a
political organization or club.
   (D)   Gift ban. Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (E)   Gift ban exceptions. 
      (1)   Division (D) above is not applicable to the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
         (c)   Any:
            1.   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
            2.   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         (d)   Educational materials and missions;
         (e) Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (f)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee;
         (g)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         (h)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered. For the purposes of this section, CATERED means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         (i)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
         (j)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this section, INTRAGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
         (k)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death;
         (l)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (F)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
   (G)   Gift ban; further restrictions. A city agency may adopt or maintain
policies that are more restrictive than those set forth in this section and may
continue to follow any existing policies, statutes, or regulations that are
more restrictive or are in addition to those set forth in this section.
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of division (C)
of this section may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of division (D)
of this section is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and
not more than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this section to the local enforcement
authorities, the State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   (a)   A violation of division (C) of this section shall be
prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the city by filing in the
circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The
prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure.
Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond
a reasonable doubt.
         (b)   A violation of division (D) of this section may be prosecuted as
a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the city, or, if an Ethics
Commission has been created, by the Commission through the designated
administrative procedure.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section is subject to discipline or
discharge.
   (I)   Procedures for reporting an allegation of a violation of this section.
      (1)   Complaints alleging a violation of this section shall be filed as a
written complaint to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Mayor shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the
respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of the
complaint. The Mayor shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a
confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant within three
business days after receipt by the City Clerk.
      (3)   The Mayor shall review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this section, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed.
      (4)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
division (C) of this section, then the Mayor shall notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and
shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in
the custody of the Mayor concerning the alleged violation.
      (5)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
division (D) of this section the Mayor shall determine disciplinary actions.
The Mayor may issue discipline, or the Mayor may elect to notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and
request that the complaint be adjudicated judicially.
      (6)   If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or
if there is no determination of probable cause, then the Mayor shall send by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the
decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be made public.
      (7)   The Mayor may choose any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge in addition to the penalties set forth in division (H) of this
section.
      (8)   A complaint alleging the violation of this section must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
      (9)   All municipal employees have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. A formal complaint with the IDHR must be filed within 180 days
of the alleged incident and a formal complaint with the EEOC must be filed
within 300 days of the alleged incident.
   (J)   Sexual harassment policy. The city has a policy against sexual
harassment, whereas, all municipal officials, agents, employees, and agencies
or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. See §
30.70 of this Code for the full sexual harassment policy, including how to
report sexual harassment, prohibition of retaliation for reporting sexual
harassment, consequences for violating the sexual harassment policy, and
consequences for knowingly making a false report
   (K)   his section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances which regulate the conduct of city officers and employees. To the
extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less restrictive than
this section, however, the provisions of this section shall prevail in
accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (L)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making gifts
and to prohibited political activities; however, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
   (M)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if this Act is found unconstitutional by
the State Supreme Court.
   (N)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional,
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(1999 Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 08-04, passed 5-11-2004; Ord. 12-19, passed 6-11-
2019)
POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
§ 30.70 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is the policy of
the city to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee, or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees, and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
   (B)   Definition; examples.
      (1)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as any
unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes the
following.
         (a)   Verbal. Verbal sexual harassment may include, but not be limited
to, sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and jokes about sex,
anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions, threats, repeated
requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even outside of their
presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal. Non-verbal sexual harassment may include, but not be
limited to, suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering, obscene
gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls," "smacking," or
"kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Visual sexual harassment may include, but not be limited
to, posters, signs, pin-ups, or slogans of a sexual nature, or viewing
pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical. Physical sexual harassment may include, but not be
limited to, touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing the
body, any coerced sexual act, or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic. Textual/electronic sexual harassment may
include, but not be limited to, "sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking, and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages, and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a reasonable person.
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or his
position to the offending employee and her or his immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report. Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, the
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Mayor. The employee experiencing what he or she believes
to be sexual harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the
conduct. If there are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor
or other responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have
knowledge of the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough, and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
city. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must be
filed within 300 days.
      (2)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time, and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos, and telephone
messages.
      (3)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges, the difficulties associated with their investigation, and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee, or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency, or other state
employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court,
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation (see 740 ILCS 174/15
(b)).
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it
is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that
which he or she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment
in employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint,
testified, assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or
hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC), of
the alleged retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks, and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the municipality, and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant
to local ordinance, state law, or federal law. Each violation may constitute a
separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the municipality shall be separate
and distinct from any penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or
penalties imposed by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks, and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous, or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-26-2017)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Council
   
31.001   Members
   
31.002   Regular meetings
   
31.003   Special meetings
   
31.004   Vacancy
   
31.005   Committees
   
31.006   Special committees
   
31.007   Quorum
   
31.008   Members refusing to attend
Rules of the City Council
   
31.020   Rules generally
   
31.021   Agenda
Ordinances
   
31.035   Ordinances
   
31.036   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
31.037   No vote to be reconsidered at special meeting
General Provisions
   
31.050   Corporate seal
   
31.051   Elections
   
31.052   Appointment of elected officials
   
31.053   Municipal officers; regulations
   
31.054   Resignation of appointed officials
   
31.055   Qualifications; elective office
   
31.056   Bonds of city officers
   
31.057   Liability insurance
   
31.058   Bidding and contract procedures
   
31.059   Salaries regulation
   
31.060   Claims presentation
   
31.061   Municipal year
   
31.062   Expenses; reimbursement
   
31.063   Official records
   
31.064   Federal old age and survivor’s insurance system
   
31.065   Municipal Retirement Fund
   
31.066   Nepotism
Mayor
   
31.080   Election
   
31.081   Mayor Pro-Tem; temporary Chairperson
   
31.082   Chief Executive Officer
   
31.083   Mayor’s signature
   
31.084   Appointment of officers
   
31.085   Supervise conduct of officers; removal of officers
   
31.086   Designation of officers’ duties
   
31.087   Formal occasions
   
31.088   General duties
   
31.089   Business License Commissioner
   
31.090   Local Liquor Commissioner
   
31.091   Deciding vote; Mayor
City Clerk
   
31.105   Elected
   
31.106   Publication of ordinances; Council minutes; records
   
31.107   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.108   Preparation of documents; commissions and licenses
   
31.109   Report of licenses
   
31.110   Delivery of licenses
   
31.111   Administration of oaths
   
31.112   Outstanding bonds
   
31.113   Reports
   
31.114   Successor
   
31.115   Payments
   
31.116   Notification to persons appointed to office
   
31.117   Other duties
   
31.118   Submit appropriation to City Council
   
31.119   Deputy Clerk
City Treasurer
   
31.135   Department established
   
31.136   Finance Committee
   
31.137   Treasurer elected; vacancy
   
31.138   Money; warrants; accounts; payments
   
31.139   Warrant register
   
31.140   Personal use of funds
   
31.141   Special assessments
   
31.142   Bookkeeping
   
31.143   Statements
   
31.144   Report delinquent officers
   
31.145   Year-end report
   
31.146   Deposit of funds
   
31.147   Investment policy
City Attorney
   
31.160   Appointment of attorney
   
31.161   Duties
Zoning Administrator
   
31.175   Creation of office
   
31.176   Duties
Public Works Department
   
31.190   Department
   
31.191   Director
   
31.192   Duties of the Director
Superintendent of Water and Sewer
   
31.205   Office established
   
31.206   Duties and responsibilities as to the Water Department
   
31.207   Duties and responsibilities as to the Sewer Department
   
31.208   Compensation
Salaries
   
31.220   Mayor
   
31.221   Aldermen
   
31.222   City Clerk
   
31.223   Treasurer
   
31.224   Public works
CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.001 MEMBERS.
    The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and eight Alderpersons, two
from each of the four wards, and their term of office shall be for four years,
and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-10) (1999 Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 31.002 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the City Council shall be held in the City
Hall Building on the second and fourth Tuesdays in each month at 6:00 p.m. When
said meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the
next secular day at the same hour unless otherwise provided by the City
Council. Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as may be determined by
the Council. Public notice of regular meetings shall be given in accordance
with the Meetings of Public Agencies Act of the state, 5 ILCS 120/1 through
120/5.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25) (1999 Code, § 1-2-2) (Ord. 01-07, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 31.003 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
    Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any
three Alderpersons by giving at least 48 hours notice thereof by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the time of such meeting at the
residences of the Alderpersons; such notices shall be served by mail, by the
Chief of Police or his or her designated representative. Said notices shall
specify the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken up at
that time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the City Hall and shall be
provided to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local radio or
television station that has filed an annual request for such notice. The notice
shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as said notice is given
to the Mayor and members of the City Council, provided such news media has
given the city an address within the city at which such notice may be given.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25 and 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03) (1999 Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 31.004 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs, if more than 28 months remain in the term and the
vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the general municipal election,
next scheduled under the general election law, the office shall be filled for
the remainder of the term at that general municipal election. During the period
from the time that the vacancy occurs until the next election of Aldermen, the
Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the office subject to the advice and
consent of the City Council.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)) (1999 Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 31.005 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following areas of special responsibility of the Aldermen
comprising the City Council are hereby established, to-wit:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Public Transportation;
      (3)   Public Safety and City Hall;
      (4)   Water;
      (5)   Ordinance, Lights, Miscellaneous Ordinances;
      (6)   Cemetery and Parks;
      (7)   Economic Development; and
      (8)   Sewer.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint an area of special responsibility to each of
the Aldermen, appoint members of all committees, advisory committees,
commissions and boards, and shall designate the Chairperson of each committee
or board, except the Park Board, which shall continue its current practice of
selecting its own Chairperson from time to time under its own rules. The number
on each committee or board shall be as directed by the City Council and each
member shall be appointed for a period of one year.
   (C)   All Mayoral appointments are subject to change at the discretion of
the Mayor.
   (D)   Any committee or board requirements established by state statutes
shall supersede the provisions of this code.
   (E)   The reports of all committees, commissions and boards to the City
Council shall be in writing.
   (F)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the City Council
shall be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the
same after the report is made, upon the request of any two Aldermen present.
   (G)   Each Alderman acting within his or her assigned area of special
responsibility shall exercise a general supervision over the affairs of the
department of municipal government with which it is connected; shall ascertain
the condition and needs of said department; shall, from time to time, report
the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding thereof may
be had, and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of
the department. In the event that an area of special responsibility becomes
excessively burdensome to the assigned Alderman, the City Council, at the
Mayor’s request, may take whatever actions are needed to ensure that adequate
supervision of the affairs of that area of responsibility is maintained.
   (H)   Upon the request of any three Aldermen, the City Council shall
investigate the adequacy of supervision of any area of special responsibility
of which those Aldermen have concerns and if deficiencies are determined to
exist the Council shall take whatever remedial action it finds to be in the
best interests of the city.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-5) (Ord. 10-12, passed 6-26-2012; Ord. 05-13, passed 6-11-
2013)
§ 31.006 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Aldermen, as may be needed from time to time.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 31.007 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the corporate authorities
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if no such
quorum attends such meeting of the Council, the Aldermen may adjourn from day
to day until a quorum is present; and shall have power to compel the attendance
of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to attend
such meetings.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20) (1999 Code, § 1-2-7)
§ 31.008 MEMBERS REFUSING TO ATTEND.
   Any member of the City Council who shall neglect or refuse to attend any
meeting of the City Council without good and sufficient excuse to be passed
upon by the City Council shall be fined the sum of $25 for failure to attend
such meeting. No member shall receive compensation for failure to attend said
meeting under the provisions of §
31.002.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-8)
Editor’s note:
   No procedure is set forth in the statutes for determining that a vacancy
exists. Where a true question exists as to the presence of a vacancy, a hearing
should be held before the vacancy is declared. A registered letter should be
sent to the last known address of the person whose office is in question.
Statutory reference:
   Fines authorized for meeting absences, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20
RULES OF THE CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.020 RULES GENERALLY.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the City Council.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15)
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Approval of minutes;
         (d)   Approval of bills;
         (e)   Treasurer’s report;
         (f)   Department reports;
         (g)   Ordinances;
         (h)   Unfinished business;
         (i)   Petitions and communications;
         (j)   Aldermen’s reports;
         (k)   New business; and
         (l)   Adjournment.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may
speak to points of order in preference to other Aldermen, and shall decide all
question of order, subject to appeal.
      (2)   In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding
officer shall have the power to require that the chamber be cleared.
   (C)   Duties of members.
      (1)   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member
shall walk across or out of the Council Chamber.
      (2)   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized
and named by the Chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the
motives of any other member’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Council shall address
that body.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he or she shall send it to the desk of the Clerk who shall read such matter
when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the presiding officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Alderman desiring to speak shall have had
an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the proponent of the matter
under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   The City Council, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate. While a member is
speaking, no Alderman shall hold any private discussion, nor pass between the
speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of Aldermen to order. A member, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and the
order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to
the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from Decision of the Chair.
      (1)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair,
and if the appeal is seconded, the Alderman making the appeal may briefly state
his or her reason for the same and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling, but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other person shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding officer shall have the right to
participate in debate.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the
Chair be sustained?”. If a majority of the Aldermen present vote “No”, the
decision of the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally interested in
the question, in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps are necessary
to ensure that his or her vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the City Council may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Aldermen present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Council, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Withdrawal of motions. After a motion or resolution is stated by the
presiding officer, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Aldermen, but
it may be withdrawn at any time before decision, by consent of the Aldermen.
   (N)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Aldermen, by a majority vote of the Aldermen
present may divide such question.
   (O)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Aldermen moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (P)   Taking and entering the votes; explanations of votes not permitted.
      (1)   If any member required it, the “yeas” and “nays” upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the journal; but the yeas and nays shall not be
taken unless called for prior to any vote on the question.
      (2)   When the Clerk has commenced to call the roll of the members for
the taking of a vote by yeas and nays, all debate on the question before the
City Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote, no
member shall be permitted to explain his or her vote, but shall respond to the
calling of his or her name by the Clerk, by answering yea or nay, as the case
may be.
   (Q)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (R)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (R)(1)(b), (R)(1)(d) and (R)(1)(e) to be decided without
debate.
   (S)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the city shall always be in order, except:
         (a)   When an Alderman is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The City Council may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular
meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Aldermen authorized by law to be
elected.
   (T)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put on this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?”. If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (U)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion to lay the question on the table shall not be debatable,
but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other condition shall
be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Aldermen vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (V)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (W)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (X)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “Strike Out and Insert”, the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (Y)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (Z)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Aldermen by a vote shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (AA)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Aldermen who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (BB)   Adoption of Robert’s “Rules of Order Revised”. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
“Rules of Order Revised” shall govern the Council in all cases to which they
are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of
the Council.
   (CC)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the Aldermen entitled by law
to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended, unless by
concurrence of two-thirds of all the Aldermen entitled by law to be elected.
   (DD)   Censure of Aldermen; expulsion of Aldermen. Any Alderman acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene and
insulting language to or about any member of the Council, or who does not obey
the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the
members present, or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Aldermen elected.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-11)
§ 31.021 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation shall
be furnished to each member of the Council no later than the close of business
on the Friday preceding the regular Council meeting. In the case of emergency
matters, which could not have been reasonably foreseen in sufficient time to
comply with this section, a revised agenda will be furnished to each member of
the Council prior to the opening of the Council meeting.
(5 ILCS 120/2.02) (1999 Code, § 1-2-12)
ORDINANCES
§ 31.035 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prepare such
ordinances as may be required by the City Council.
   (B)   Introduced. When a proposed ordinance is introduced, it shall be read
one time by title only and referred to the proper committee unless the City
Council shall otherwise specifically direct.
   (C)   Vote required; yeas and nays record.
      (1)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion: to create any liability against a city; or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all members then holding office on the City Council, including the
Mayor, unless otherwise expressly provided by the code or any other act
governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution or motion; provided that,
where the Council consists of an odd number of Alderpersons, the vote of the
majority of the Alderpersons shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance.
      (2)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage
of the designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the
journal of the City Council.
      (3)   In addition, the corporate authorities at any meeting may by
unanimous consent to take a single vote by yeas or nays on the several
questions of the passage on any two or more of the designated ordinances,
orders, resolutions or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single
group.
      (4)   The single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under
the designation “omnibus vote”, and in such event the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering names of the members of City Council voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda. The taking of
such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words “omnibus vote” or
“consent agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect
as if the vote in each case had been separately by yeas and nays on the
question of the passage of each ordinance, order, resolution and motion
included in such omnibus group, and separately recorded in the journal.
Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
any other resolution or motion at the request of any Alderperson and shall be
recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40)
   (D)   Ordinances; approval, veto.
      (1)   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against a
city; or that provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money; or to
sell any city property, and all ordinances, passed by the City Council shall be
deposited with the City Clerk. If the Mayor approved of them, he or she shall
sign them. Those ordinances, resolutions and motions which the Mayor
disapproves shall be returned to the City Council, with his or her written
objections, at the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring not less
than five days after their passage.
      (2)   The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in
any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the
remainder shall be effective; however, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an
ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to
return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her
written objections, within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of the Mayor’s signature.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-14)
§ 31.036 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   (A)   Every resolution and motion, specified in §
31.035 and every ordinance, that is returned to the City Council by the Mayor
shall be reconsidered by the City Council at the next regular meeting.
   (B)    If, after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Alderpersons then
holding office on the City Council shall agree at that regular meeting to pass
an ordinance, resolution or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to
approve it, then it shall be effective.
   (C)   The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be by
yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50) (1999 Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 31.037 NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETING.
    No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting at least as many
Alderpersons as were present when the vote was taken.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55) (1999 Code, § 1-2-16)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.050 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the city shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the city. It shall be circular in form with the words,
“City of Johnston City, Ill.” In the circle, and the word “Seal” in the center.
(65 ILCS 5/2-2-12)
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the city and in all other cases in which, by
law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the City Clerk who shall be the legal
custodian.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-19)
§ 31.051 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of the 10 ILCS and 65 ILCS 5/3.1-
10-10 concerning municipal elections shall govern the conduct of the city
elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected city officials shall
occur at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council in the month
of May following the general municipal election in April.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15) (1999 Code, § 1-2-20)
§ 31.052 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)    No Alderperson of this city, during the term of office for which he
or she is elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed
by the Mayor except if such Alderperson is granted a leave of absence from such
office; however, such Alderperson may serve as a volunteer firefighter and
receive compensation for such service. Any appointment in violation of this
section is void.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15)
   (B)   Note: one member may serve on the Library Board.
(75 ILCS 5/4-1 and 50 ILCS 105/2)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-21)
§ 31.053 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the city, regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Qualifications; appointive office.
      (1)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive municipal office
unless that person is a qualified elector of the municipality or otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   The residency requirements do not apply, however, to municipal
engineers, health officers, attorneys or other officers who require technical
training or knowledge, to appointed city treasurers, or to appointed city
collectors (unless the city has designated by ordinance that the City Clerk
shall also hold the office of collector).
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6)
   (C)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the City
Council upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30)
   (D)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, papers, furniture and other
things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the city.
Within five days after notification and request, any person who has been an
officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his or her successor in
office, all property, books and effects in his or her possession belonging to
the municipality, or pertaining to the office he or she has held. Upon his or
her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby,
and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99. He or she shall not receive his or her final check until his or her city
code book and keys are turned over to the City Clerk.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35)
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the City Council.
   (F)   Fees; report of fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled
to charge or receive any fees as against the city. All officers of the city
entitled to receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make a
report thereof under oath to the City Council prior to the regular meeting of
each month. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service, and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the City Treasury.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the city shall perform
such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as the
City Council may provide by law.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40)
   (H)   Conservators of peace.
      (1)    After receiving a certificate attesting to the successful
completion of a training course administered by the State Law Enforcement
Training Standards Board, the Mayor, Alderpersons and police officers in
municipalities shall be conservators of the peace. Those persons and others
authorized by ordinance shall have power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place or until they can be brought before the proper court;
and
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace
prescribed by the corporate authorities.
      (2)   All warrants for the violation of municipal ordinances or the state
criminal law, directed to any person, may be served and executed within the
limits of a municipality by any police officer of the municipality. For that
purpose, police officers have all the common law and statutory powers of
sheriffs.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25)
   (I)   Oath.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
“I,_______________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ____________ according to
the best of my ability.”
      (2)   The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this
oath or affirmation upon all lawful occasions. See administration of oaths, §
31.112.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20)
(1999 Code, § 1-2-22)
§ 31.054 RESIGNATION OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   Any officer of the city may resign from office. If such officer resigns he
or she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been chosen and
has qualified. If there is a failure to appoint a city officer, or the person
appointed fails to qualify, the person filling the office shall continue in
office until his or her successor has been chosen and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50) (1999 Code, § 1-2-23)
§ 31.055 QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)    A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office unless that
person is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided in the
municipality at least one year next preceding the election.
   (B)   (1)   A person is not eligible for an elective municipal office if
that person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to
the municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United
States of any infamous crime, bribery, perjury or other felony, unless such
person is again restored to his or her rights of citizenship that may have been
forfeited under Illinois law as a result of conviction, which include
eligibility to hold elected municipal office, by the terms of a pardon for the
offense, has received a restoration of rights by the Governor, or otherwise
according to law. Any time after a judgment of conviction is rendered, a person
convicted of an infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony may petition
the Governor for a restoration of rights.
      (2)   The changes made to this division by the amendatory Act of the
102nd General Assembly are declarative of existing law and apply to all persons
elected at the April 4, 2017 consolidated elections and to persons elected or
appointed thereafter.
   (C)   A person is not eligible for the office of Alderperson unless that
person has resided in the municipality, as the case may be, at least one year
next preceding the election or appointment.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5) (1999 Code, § 1-2-24)
§ 31.056 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of city officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $3,000;
      (2)   City Clerk: $25,000;
      (3)   City Treasurer: $340,000;
      (4)   Deputy Clerk: $2,000;
      (5)   Police Chief: $5,000;
      (6)   Utilities Clerk: $25,000;
      (7)   Water and Sewer Superintendent: $5,000; and
      (8)   Water Clerk: $25,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by city. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the city.
(5 ILCS 270/1)
   (C)   Surety. The City Council shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the City Council, any one of the Aldermen or any
elected or appointed officer of the city appear as bondsman or security. If, by
mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by the City
Council or if any bondsman, after becoming such is elected or appointed to any
city office, this section shall not act as a release of any such obligation
incurred.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-25) (Ord. 14-00, passed 10-24-2000)
§ 31.057 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase of. The City Council shall have the power to purchase
liability insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees and
elected officials; said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the
performance of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover and protect any
liability which the municipal corporation, officer, employee or elected
official may incur. When the insurance has been purchased, the city shall be
responsible for all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid
liability insurance policy covering the municipal corporation, officer,
employee or elected official.
   (B)   Indemnification. If the City Council elects not to purchase liability
insurance covering and insuring municipal officers, elected officials and
employees as provided in this section, then the city shall indemnify and cause
to defend municipal officers, elected officials and employees from any claim
filed by an individual, partnership or corporation when the claim is founded on
any act or omission of the municipal officers, elected officials or employees
while in the performance of their official duties, except the city shall not
indemnify, but shall defend any municipal officer, elected official or employee
from any claim made by an individual, partnership or corporation wherein the
claim alleges that the municipal officer, elected official or employee acted
intentionally, maliciously or wantonly and further, shall not indemnify or
cause to defend the officials or employees where the claim is directly or
indirectly related to the negligent care or use of a vehicle as defined by the
state statutes, and the city shall not indemnify any municipal officer, elected
official or employee from any claim made by a municipal officer, elected
official or employee. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the
city shall not indemnify or cause to defend any municipal officers, elected
officials or employees if the municipal officers, elected officials or
employees have liability insurance insuring the municipal officers, elected
officials or employees from the alleged claim; however, the city shall
indemnify the municipal officer, elected official or employee the personal
deductible limits of his or her personal policy.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Immunity of public employees, see 745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.
§ 31.058 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding required. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or
special taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials
and services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services except as otherwise provided herein, when the
estimated cost thereof shall exceed $10,000, shall be purchased from the lowest
responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive bidding
is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Aldermen then holding office.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the city. The city shall
also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the public
bulletin board in the City Hall.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the City Council, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders
shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the
contract by the City Council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the City Council upon failure on his or her part to enter into a
contract within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Council or by a city employee, in which event, a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The city shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to city. The city shall not accept the bid of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies
due the city.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in city. The City Council shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
city to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the City
Council shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The City Council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of $10,000 shall be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers and architects and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by the city without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies materials or services, the City Council
shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set forth, at
the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials or services
regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The city shall have the authority to join with
other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the city would be served thereby.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 8-9-1 and 8-9-2
§ 31.059 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5et seq.) (1999 Code, § 1-2-29)
Editor’s note:
   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in the
appropriation ordinance or annual budget. The salary of elected officials must
be established in an ordinance other than the appropriation ordinance at least
six months prior to the general municipal election in which voting is held for
those offices.
§ 31.060 CLAIMS PRESENTATION.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the city for goods purchased, damaged
or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and other
allowances that are fixed by ordinance, must be presented on or before the
first day of each month to the City Clerk. All such claims must be in writing
and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the City Council from passing on any
claims not previously presented to the City Clerk if, in the opinion of the
Council, justice to the claimant requires it.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-30)
§ 31.061 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year of the city shall begin on May 1 of each year and shall
end on April 30 of the following year.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2) (1999 Code, § 1-2-31)
§ 31.062 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Each member of the corporate authorities may receive reimbursement from the
municipality for expenses incurred by the member in attending committee
meetings of the corporate authorities or for other expenses incurred by the
member in the course of performing official duties.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(b)) (1999 Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 31.063 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the corporate seal, shall be kept in the
City Hall.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 31.064 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the city, eligible
under the Federal Act, except persons elected to office by popular election and
also the City Treasurer and City Attorney.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid quarterly.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-34)
§ 31.065 MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The city does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund.
   (B)   The city includes in its levy and appropriation ordinance provisions
for the levying of a special tax to pay the city’s cost of participating in the
Retirement Fund and appropriate therefrom funds to pay the cost of
participation.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-35)
§ 31.066 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. FAMILY MEMBER or RELATIVE is defined as the wife,
husband, child (including step-child, adopted child or child, step-child or
adopted child of domestic partner) or child’s spouse, parent or parents’ spouse
or domestic partner, sibling or siblings’ spouse or domestic partner, domestic
partner and individuals in the same household or the parent or sibling of a
Council member’s spouse or domestic partner, nephew, niece, spouse’s nephew,
spouse’s niece.
   (B)   Prohibitive hiring. The city shall not hire to any job or appoint to
any board any person who is a relative as defined herein to any Council member.
In the event that a Council member does hire or appoint to any board any person
who is a relative as defined herein to any Council member, that Alderman shall
resign immediately.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-36) (Ord. 12-08, passed 3-25-2008)
MAYOR
§ 31.080 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term, and shall serve until a
successor is elected and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-15-10) (1999 Code, § 1-2-40)
§ 31.081 MAYOR PRO-TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)    If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to
perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the
office, the corporate authorities shall elect one of their members to act as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem, during this absence or disability, shall
perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor but shall
not be entitled to vote both as Mayor Pro Tem and as an Alderperson.
   (B)    In the absence of the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, the corporate
authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary Chairperson.
The temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and
a right to vote only in the capacity as Alderperson on any ordinance,
resolution or motion.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35) (1999 Code, § 1-2-41)
§ 31.082 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall see to
the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. The Mayor shall preside over the
meetings of the City Council and perform such duties as may be required of him
or her by statute or law. The Mayor shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and city employees; provided, however, his or her control is
subject to the power of the City Council to prescribe the duties of various
officers and employees. The Mayor shall have the power and authority at any
reasonable time to inspect all books, papers and records pertaining to city
affairs and kept by any officer of the city.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10 and 3.1-35-20) (1999 Code, § 1-2-43)
§ 31.083 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all city warrants, commissions, permits and
licenses granted by authority of the City Council, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to any
written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send
written notice of this designation to the City Council stating:
      (1)   The name of the person whom he or she has selected; and
      (2)   What instrument the person will have authority to sign.
   (C)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath the signature of the person so designated shall
be attached to the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be
recorded in the journal of the City Council and then filed with the City Clerk.
When the signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all
respects, shall be as binding on the city as if signed by the Mayor in person.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30) (1999 Code, § 1-2-45)
§ 31.084 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all officers
of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year, and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5)
   (B)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council, all officers of the city whose appointment will
not otherwise be provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any
office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to fill,
the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the City Council, communicate
to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the concurrence of
the City Council in such appointment, the Mayor may designate some suitable
person to discharge the functions of such office.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-46)
§ 31.085 SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS; REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the city and see
that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective
offices. Except where otherwise provided by statute, the Mayor may remove any
officer appointed by the Mayor under this code, on any written charge, whenever
the Mayor is of the opinion that the interests of the municipality demand
removal. The Mayor shall report the reasons for the removal to the corporate
authorities at a meeting to be held not less than five days, nor more than ten
days after the removal. If the Mayor fails or refuses to report to the
corporate authorities the reasons for the removal, or if the corporate
authorities by a two-thirds vote of all members authorized by law to be elected
disapprove of the removal, the officer thereupon shall be restored to the
office from which the officer was removed. The vote shall be by yeas and nays,
which shall be entered upon the journal of the corporate authorities. Upon
restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and take a new oath of office.
No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10) (1999 Code, § 1-2-47)
§ 31.086 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power
to delegate to any appointive officer, any duty which is to be performed when
no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 31.087 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions, but in the absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Mayor may select any other city officer to so act.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-49)
§ 31.088 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The Mayor, from time to time, may and annually shall give the City
Council information relative to the affairs of the city, and may recommend for
its consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5) (1999 Code, § 1-2-50)
§ 31.089 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as License Commissioner to issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law, with the advice and consent
of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-51)
§ 31.090 LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Local Liquor Commissioner with all the
powers to license and/or revoke any city liquor license according to state and
city laws.
(235 ILCS 5/4-2) (1999 Code, § 1-2-52)
§ 31.091 DECIDING VOTE; MAYOR.
   (A)    The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   The Mayor shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion,
except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Alderpersons has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Alderpersons elected have voted in favor of
an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the state statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion.
   (C)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Alderperson, but he or she shall not be entitled to another
vote in his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30) (1999 Code, § 1-2-53)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.105 ELECTED.
   The Clerk shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor for a four-year
term and shall serve until a successor is elected and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-20-5) (1999 Code, § 1-2-56)
§ 31.106 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; COUNCIL MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Ordinances. The City Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
City Council and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the corporate
authorities, or be published at least once within 30 days after passage, in one
or more newspapers published in the city.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-5)
   (B)   Minutes; records. The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the City
Council and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “The Journal of the City
Council”, a full and faithful record of its proceedings. The City Clerk shall
record and properly index in a book kept for that purpose, all ordinances
passed by the City Council, and at the foot of the record of each ordinance so
recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage, when
published, and a memorandum of the publication of such ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90)
   (C)   Bonds. The Clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose,
all official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was
entered of record and the book and pages where recorded.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110)
   (D)   Issue notices. The Clerk shall issue and cause to be served upon all
Aldermen, notices of all special meetings of the City Council; also notices to
the members of the different committees of that body and all persons whose
attendance may be required before any such committee, when so directed by the
Chairperson thereof.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 5/1-2-5 and 5/3.1-35-90) (1999 Code, § 1-2-58)
§ 31.107 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the City Council and to
the officers of this city, all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Council on demand therefor. The Clerk shall also, without
delay, deliver to the Mayor, all ordinances or resolutions, orders and claims
in his or her charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon
by the Mayor.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90) (1999 Code, § 1-2-59)
§ 31.108 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS; COMMISSIONS AND LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and the Clerk shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
city.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 31.109 REPORT OF LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall report to the City Council at its regular meeting each month
and more often if the Council so requires the data contained in the license
register with respect to licenses issued during the previous month.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-61)
§ 31.110 DELIVERY OF LICENSES.
   In all cases where the city requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain plates, tags or stickers from the Clerk, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such plates, tags or stickers to the
person paying the license fee.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-62)
§ 31.111 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20) (1999 Code, § 1-2-63)
§ 31.112 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the city,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued;
and when the city bonds are issued, or purchased, or paid, or cancelled, the
book or books shall show that fact; and in the annual report, the Clerk shall
describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of sale with
each and every item of expense thereof.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110) (1999 Code, § 1-2-64)
§ 31.113 REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the City Council a statement or report in writing of all the
monies received and warrants drawn during the preceding month, showing therein
from or what sources and on what account monies were received, and for what
purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 31.114 SUCCESSOR.
   The City Clerk shall carefully preserve all books, records, papers, maps and
effects of every detail and description belonging to the city or pertaining to
the office, and not in actual use and possession of other city officers; and
upon the expiration of his or her official term, the Clerk shall deliver all
such books, records, papers and effects to the successor in office.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35) (1999 Code, § 1-2-66)
§ 31.115 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare daily an itemized list of all monies received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the City Treasurer and shall also pay over
to the Treasurer all monies received in the office and take a receipt therefor.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-67)
§ 31.116 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   Within five days after an appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify all
persons appointed to office of their appointment. The office becomes vacant
unless the person appointed qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-68)
§ 31.117 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to the office as are or may be imposed upon the office by law
or resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40) (1999 Code, § 1-2-69)
§ 31.118 SUBMIT APPROPRIATION TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, on or before May 15 in each year and before the
annual appropriations to be made by the City Council, submit to the City
Council a report of his or her estimates as nearly as may be of monies
necessary to defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal
year. In the report, he or she shall classify the different objects and
branches of expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount required for
each; and for the purpose of making such a report, he or she is hereby
authorized to require of all officers their statement of the condition and
expenses of their respective offices or departments, with any proposed
improvements, and the probable expense thereof, all contracts made and
unfinished, and the amount of any and all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year.
   (B)   He or she shall in such report, show the aggregate income of the
preceding fiscal year from all sources, the amount of liabilities outstanding
upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable during the year,
when due, and when payable, and in such report, he or she shall give such other
information to the City Council as he or she may deem necessary to the end that
the City Council may fully understand the money exigencies and demands upon the
corporation for the current year.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115) (1999 Code, § 1-2-70)
§ 31.119 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk, when authorized by the City Council, may appoint the
Deputy Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the city
thereto whenever required, in signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall
sign the name of the City Clerk followed with the word, “By” and the Deputy
Clerk’s name and the words “Deputy Clerk”.
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the City Clerk from the City Clerk’s office
in the City Hall, and only when either written direction has been given by the
City Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the City Council has
determined by resolution that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10 and 5/3.1-10-45 and 5/3.1-35-95) (1999 Code, § 1-2-71)
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.135 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city, which shall be known as the Finance Department. It shall embrace the
Finance Committee and the Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-72)
§ 31.136 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing committee on Finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the condition and
needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City
Council so that a full understanding thereof shall be had and generally, shall
do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-73)
§ 31.137 TREASURER ELECTED; VACANCY.
   The Treasurer shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor for a four-
year term and shall serve until a successor is elected and has qualified. If a
vacancy occurs in the office, it shall be filled by the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the City Council. The person so appointed shall hold office for
the unexpired term of the officer elected.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5) (1999 Code, § 1-2-74)
§ 31.138 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to this city and
shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk
and not otherwise; and shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall give to every person paying money into the City
Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
account paid, and shall file copies of such receipts with the Clerk with the
monthly reports.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40) (1999 Code, § 1-2-75)
§ 31.139 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid,
showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which paid, and the
name of the person to whom and when paid; and the Treasurer shall cancel all
warrants as soon as they are redeemed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 and 5/3.1-35-45) (1999 Code, § 1-2-76)
§ 31.140 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the municipality
and in the Treasurer’s custody separate and distinct from the Treasurer’s own
money and shall not use, either directly or indirectly, the municipality’s
monies or warrants for the personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any
other person. Any violation of this provision shall subject the Treasurer to
immediate removal from office by the corporate authorities, who may declare the
Treasurer’s office vacant.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55) (1999 Code, § 1-2-77)
§ 31.141 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
account entitled thereto.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85) (1999 Code, § 1-2-79)
§ 31.142 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep the books and accounts in such a manner as to show
with accuracy, all monies received and disbursed for the city, stating from
whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what account paid out,
and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily investigated and
understood, and the books and accounts and all files and papers of the office
shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor or the Finance
Committee of the Council.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40) (1999 Code, § 1-2-80)
§ 31.143 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the regular
monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the municipality as shown by his or her books up to the time of the report.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45) (1999 Code, § 1-2-81)
§ 31.144 REPORT DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the City Clerk any
officer of the city authorized to receive money for the use of the city who may
fail to make a return of the monies received by the Treasurer at the time
required by law or by ordinances of the city.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-82)
§ 31.145 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Treasurer
shall prepare and file annually with the City Clerk an account of monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year as
specified in this section.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall show the following in such account:
      (1)   All monies received by the city, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the city, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (B)(1), the term ACCOUNT shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user or such other persons
whose payments to the city are credited to the general account;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all monies paid out by
the city where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds $2,500,
giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid, and the
total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
      (3)   All monies paid out by the city as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid,
and the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
and
      (4)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account groups
of the city as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed with the
appropriate state agency of the state.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such account from the City Treasurer, the City Clerk
shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers published in
the city.
   (D)   Note: the Treasurer shall file a copy of the report with the County
Treasurer as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65) (1999 Code, § 1-2-83)
§ 31.146 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all funds and monies in his
or her custody belonging to the city in such places of deposit as have been
designated by division (B) below. When requested by the Treasurer, the
corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which may be kept the
funds and monies of the city in the custody of the Treasurer. When a bank or
savings and loan association has been designated as a depository, it shall
continue as such depository until ten days have elapsed after a new depository
is designated and has qualified by furnishing the statements of resources and
liabilities as required by this section. When a new depository is designated,
the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties of the Municipal Treasurer
of that fact in writing at least five days before the transfer of funds. The
Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or money that
the Treasurer deposits in a designated bank or savings and loan association
while the funds and money are so deposited.
   (B)   The following bank(s) are hereby designated as places of deposit where
the Treasurer of the city is required to keep all Illinois funds and monies in
his or her custody belonging to this municipality:
      (1)   First Bank, Johnston City Branch;
      (2)   South Pointe Bank, Johnston City Branch;
      (3)   Illinois State Treasurer’s Investment Pool; and
      (4)   Bank of Southern Illinois, Johnston City Branch.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-84)
§ 31.147 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security, while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming
to all state statutes and city ordinances governing the investment of public
funds.
   (B)   Scope. This policy includes all public funds governed by the City
Council.
   (C)   Procedures. All investments shall be made with judgment and care,
under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of capital, as
well as the probable income to be earned.
   (D)   Objective.
      (1)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
         (a)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
         (b)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
         (c)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
         (d)   Yield. Attainment of market rates of return.
      (2)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically to determine its
effectiveness in meeting the city’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, diversification and overall general performance.
   (E)   Delegation of authority. Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is hereby delegated to the Treasurer, who under the
delegation of the City Council shall establish written procedures for the
operations of the investment policy.
   (F)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   (G)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions. The Treasurer will
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. A list will also be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers
selected by credit worthiness.
   (H)   Authorized investments. Investments may be made in any type of
security allowed by the Public Funds Investment Act (30 ILCS 235). Investments
shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund type being invested.
   (I)   Collateralization. Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates
of deposits and the like) in excess of FDIC limits shall be secured by some
form of collateral, documented by written agreement and held at an independent
third party institution in the name of the city.
   (J)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the city, shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third party custodian designated by the Treasurer and evidenced
by safekeeping receipts and written custodial agreements.
   (K)   Diversification and maturity limitations. The city shall diversify its
investments to the best of its ability based on the type of funds invested and
the cash flow needs of those funds. Diversification can be by type of
investment, number of institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
   (L)   Maximum maturities. To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to
match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched
to a specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities
maturing more than three years from the date of purchase. Reserve funds may be
invested in securities exceeding three years if such investments are made to
coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use of the funds.
   (M)   Internal control.
      (1)   The Treasurer is responsible to establish and maintain an internal
control system designed to ensure that the assets of the city are protected
from loss, theft or misuse.
      (2)   The internal control system shall be designed to provide reasonable
assurance that these objectives are met.
      (3)   The internal control system shall address the following:
         (a)   Control of collusion;
         (b)   Detailed monthly reporting of all transactions to the City
Council;
         (c)   Custodial safekeeping; and
         (d)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments
and wire transfers.
   (N)   Performance standards.
      (1)   This investment portfolio will be managed in accord with the
parameters specified within this policy.
      (2)   The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of return during a
market/economic environment of stable interest rates.
      (3)   Performance should be compared to benchmark with similar maturity,
liquidity and credit quality as the portfolio.
   (O)   Reporting. The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the City Council and available upon
request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report shall also be provided to the City Council. A
statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the City
Council.
   (P)   Review. The investment policy shall be adopted by the City Council and
reviewed on an annual basis by the Treasurer. Any modifications made thereto
shall be approved by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-85) (Ord. 18-99, passed 12-14-1999)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.160 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council for the term of one year, unless sooner removed
for cause, and until a successor shall have been appointed and qualified.
   (B)   The Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the city,
including all duties prescribed in §
31.161, and the power to consult and, with the consent of the City Council,
retain other attorneys to assist the Attorney in performing those duties when
necessary.
   (C)   The Attorney shall be known as the City Attorney, and shall receive
hourly based fee compensation for office services, advice and meeting
attendance as agreed between the Attorney and the City Council, and shall
receive reasonable fees for other services rendered when, in his or her
judgment, or in the judgment of the Mayor or City Council, the same are
necessary or are for the best interests of the city.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-88) (Ord. 13-11, passed 8-9-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.161 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for city. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend on
behalf of the city in all cases in which the interests of the corporation or
any officer thereof are involved; and the City Clerk shall furnish him or her
with certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in keeping necessary to
be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. The Attorney shall, when required, advise
the City Council or any officer in all matters of law in which the interests of
the corporation are involved, and shall draw such ordinances, bonds, forms and
contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required by the Mayor,
the City Council or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. The Attorney shall direct executions to be issued upon all
judgments recovered in favor of the city, and shall direct their prompt
service. The Attorney shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts,
and of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their correctness and
the liability of the city therefor.
   (D)   Violations of ordinances. The Attorney shall institute and prosecute
an action in every case of violation of a city ordinance when instructed to do
so by the Mayor or the City Council.
   (E)   Prosecution of suits. The Attorney shall not be required to prosecute
any suit or action arising under the ordinances of the city when, upon
investigation of the same, the Attorney shall become satisfied that the
complaint was instituted maliciously, vexatiously or without just cause, and
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he
or she may deem just or equitable.
   (F)   Collection of taxes. The Attorney is hereby authorized and instructed
to enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the city is interested and to attend all sales of real or
personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments and to bid thereat on behalf of the city.
   (G)   Commissions. The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisory for the
utilities systems, for the Plan Commission, for the Zoning Board of Appeals and
for all other boards and commissions hereafter established by the City Council.
The Attorney shall perform all legal services as may be required for those
boards and commissions.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-89)
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.175 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the executive position of Zoning
Administrator. The officer and organizational personnel shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The Zoning
Administrator shall also serve as the Building Inspector, Floodplain Inspector
and as the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   This position shall have as benefits the following: the ability to
utilize a municipal automobile, if one is available and a $500 per year
clothing allowance.
   (C)   The salary of the Zoning Administrator shall be annually established
by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-101) (Ord. 10-06, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 31.176 DUTIES.
   The Zoning Administrator or his or her authorized representative shall
administer and enforce the Zoning Code as amended from time to time, and is in
effect in accordance with the powers and duties therein set forth, and in
furtherance of such authority shall:
   (A)   Issue all building permits and zoning certificates and make and
maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof;
   (C)   Issue “Temporary Certificates of Zoning Compliance” as authorized by
the Zoning Code;
   (D)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and land to determine
compliance with the Zoning Code and notify, in writing, the person responsible
for any violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by statute or by the Zoning
Code to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of the provisions;
   (F)   Prepare and cause to be published on or before March 31 of each year,
a map showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations
and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31;
   (G)   Maintain permanent and current records of the Zoning Code including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, special use permits, planned building
developments, variances, appeals and applications therefor;
   (H)   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to all
matters arising out of the Zoning Code;
   (I)   Receive, file and forward to the Plan Commission all applications for
amendments, use variances and special use permits, and other matters upon which
the Plan Commission is required to act under the Zoning Code;
   (J)   Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for variances, appeals and other matters upon which the board is
required to act under the Zoning Code;
   (K)   Keep the Mayor and City Council advised of zoning activities by
written report once each month, including statements of permits and
certificates issued and orders promulgated;
   (L)   The Zoning Administrator may request and shall receive so far as may
be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of the Chief of Police in enforcing order, of the City Attorney in
prosecuting violators, and of other city officials and officers; and
   (M)   The Zoning Administrator shall perform other duties as a Code
Enforcement Officer as prescribed by codes and laws of the city, and as may be
specifically assigned to him or her by the City Council. Such codes and laws
may include, but not be limited to, the Mobile Housing Code, the Subdivision
Code and the Building Code, as adopted and amended from time to time by the
City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-102)
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 31.190 DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be an Executive Department of the city, known as the Public
Works Department. It shall consist of the existing departments known as the
Water Department, Sewer Department, Street and Alley Department, and the
Cemetery Department.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-106)
§ 31.191 DIRECTOR.
   The Director of the Public Works Department shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council, and shall hold his or her
office until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified. He or she
shall receive such salary as may be provided by ordinance of the Council at the
time of his or her appointment. He or she shall hereinafter be referred to as
the Director.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-107)
§ 31.192 DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR.
   It shall be the Director’s duty to manage and control all aspects of the
Public Works Department, which is comprised of the departments formerly known
as the Water Department, Sewer Department, Street and Alley Department and the
Cemetery Department. The Director shall also perform such other duties as the
City Council and the Mayor shall, from time to time designate. The Director
shall have direct supervision over all city workers employed within the Public
Works Department.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-108) (Ord. 02-10, passed 2-23-2010)
SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER
§ 31.205 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Water and
Sewer, who shall hereafter be known as the Superintendent.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council at the annual meeting. See §
31.206.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-114)
§ 31.206 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AS TO THE WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Superintendent as to the Water
Department shall be as follows:
   (A)   Shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the Water
Department as outlined in
Chapters 51 through
55, and shall also be the approving authority, as needed, on any documents;
   (B)   Shall be responsible for the general and preventive maintenance of the
Water Department;
   (C)   Shall supervise the construction and maintenance of water services,
including, but not limited to, transmission, metering and distribution;
   (D)   Shall assign all labor forces, as needed, and shall inspect projects
as completed;
   (E)   Shall be responsible for preparing “as-built” and “field” drawings and
maps for the city records;
   (F)   Shall prepare monthly reports summarizing the water system activity;
and
   (G)   Shall serve as “Cross-Connection Inspector” as required by state
statute.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-115)
§ 31.207 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AS TO THE SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Superintendent as to the Sewer
Department shall be as follows:
   (A)   Shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the Sewer
Department and assign all labor forces as needed;
   (B)   Shall complete timely reports containing his or her recommendations to
the Sewer Committee and monthly reports summarizing the activities in the Sewer
Department;
   (C)   Shall prepare the necessary reports as required by the state and/or
federal authorities in
Chapters 51 through
55, and shall also be the approving authority, as needed, on any documents;
   (D)   Shall possess sufficient expertise so as to be capable of
understanding and interpreting engineering plans for the design, construction,
maintenance and operation of the system; and
   (E)   Shall be responsible for formulating, implementing and reviewing
regular annual maintenance programs for the Department.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-116)
§ 31.208 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Superintendent of Water and Sewer shall be annually
established by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 1-2-117) (Ord. 7-92, passed 6-23-1992)
SALARIES
§ 31.220 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary of $7,200, plus $25 for each
Committee meeting.
(1999 Code, § 1-3-1) (Ord. 10-2000, passed 9-26-2000; Ord. 13-16, passed 9-27-
2016)
§ 31.221 ALDERMEN.
   Each Alderman shall be compensated for his or her services in the amount of
$75 per meeting. An Alderman shall not be penalized by having his or her
regular compensation withheld if the Alderman is absent. In addition, each
Alderman shall receive $25 for attending each Committee meeting.
(1999 Code, § 1-3-2) (Ord. 10-2000, passed 9-26-2000)
§ 31.222 CITY CLERK.
   The starting salary of the City Clerk shall be $40,000 per year from May
2025. If City Clerk is returning from previous term, starting salary shall be
$53,458.61 per year. The position of City Clerk will be eligible for a raise
based on the SSA COLA (social security cost of living adjustment), or 2%
increase, whichever is higher, per every year of their term.
(1999 Code, § 1-3-3) (Ord. 13-08, passed 8-12-2008; Ord. 16-12, passed 9-11-
2012; Ord. 12-16, passed 9-27-2016; Ord. 08-20, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 14-24,
passed 9-24-2024)
§ 31.223 TREASURER.
   The starting salary of the City Treasurer shall be $40,000 per year from May
2025. If City Treasurer is returning from previous term, starting salary shall
be $53,458.61 per year. The position of City Treasurer will be eligible for a
raise based on the SSA COLA (social security cost of living adjustment), or 2%
increase, whichever is higher, per every year of their term.
(1999 Code, § 1-3-4) (Ord. 13-08, passed 8-12-2008; Ord. 17-12, passed 9-11-
2012; Ord. 11-16, passed 9-27-2016; Ord. 09-20, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 15-24,
passed 9-24-2024)
Editor’s note:
   The salaries of elected officials who hold elective office for a definite
term shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term and shall be
fixed at least 180 days before to a general municipal election in which voting
is held for those offices.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5; 5/3.1-50-10; 5/3.1-50-15
§ 31.224 PUBLIC WORKS.
   The salary to be paid to the Director of Public Works, the Fire Chief and
the Police Chief shall be negotiated with the candidate for each position
before appointment as one of the conditions of employment and be presented to
the City Council for approval.
(1999 Code, § 1-3-5) (Ord. 02-10, passed 2-23-2010; Ord. 12-12, passed 6-26-
2012; Ord. 10-13, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Plan Commission
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Term of office
   
32.04   Procedure
   
32.05   Powers and duties
   
32.06   Land subdivision or re-subdivision and the official map
   
32.07   Improvements
   
32.08   Further purposes
   
32.09   Expenditures
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
32.20   Creation
   
32.21   Membership
   
32.22   First appointments
   
32.23   Qualifications; oath; bond; removal
   
32.24   Appointment of members
   
32.25   Rules; publications
   
32.26   Secretary
   
32.27   Compensation
   
32.28   Compliance
   
32.29   Appointment of officers, members, and chiefs
   
32.30   City officer
Foreign Fire Insurance Board
   
32.45   Board established
   
32.46   Members of Board
   
32.47   Rules and regulations
   
32.48   List of appropriate expenditures
   
32.49   Appropriation of funds
   
32.50   Treasurer’s bond
   
32.51   Lawful expenditures
   
32.52   Audit of funds
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A Plan Commission is hereby created under authority of the 65 ILCS 5/11-12-
4 through 5/11-12-12.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of 13 members, said members to be
residents of the city; appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their particular
fitness for their duty on the Plan Commission and subject to the approval of
the City Council. One Alderman and one citizen shall be ex officio.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 32.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members shall serve for a period of one year. Vacancies shall be filled
by appointment for the unexpired term only. All members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation, except that if the City Council deems it advisable,
they may receive such compensation as provided by the City Council by
appropriation.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURE.
   The Plan Commission shall elect such officers as it may deem necessary and
adopt rules and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with the
city code and state law. The Commission shall keep written records of its
proceedings. It shall be open at all times for and to the inspection of the
public, and the Commission shall file an annual report with the Mayor and City
Council, setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond the
corporate limits of the city and not included in any other municipality. Such
plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or part
thereof of the city. Such plan shall be advisory, except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the City Council.
All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the
County Record of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with the City
Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for the health,
safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the city and contiguous
territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards of design
for subdivisions and for re-subdivisions of unimproved land and of areas
subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein defined
and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted by law;
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the city and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the official
comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts thereof,
to further the making of such improvements and generally, to promote the
realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional plan commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local plan program and to assure harmonious
and integrated planning for the area, subject to approval of the City Council;
and
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state, as may be conferred
by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 32.06 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RE-SUBDIVISION AND THE OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or functional parts
and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area within
one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the city. All requirements
for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds
and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official map with the
Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. No map or plat of any
subdivision or re-subdivision presented for record affecting land within the
corporate limits of the city or within contiguous territory which is not more
than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to
record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for
standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways
for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to
be used for residential purposes, and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the
code, including the official map.
(65 ILCS 5/11-12-12) (1999 Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 32.07 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 32.08 FURTHER PURPOSES.
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along the street, traffic way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces or other classification), as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 32.09 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the City
Council and if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical
advice or services, it shall be done upon authority of the City Council and
appropriations by the City Council therefor.
(1999 Code, § 4-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.20 CREATION.
   There is hereby established a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in this
municipality. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council shall
appoint a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
(65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1) (1999 Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 32.21 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall consist of three members
whose terms of office shall be three years, and until their respective
successors are appointed and have qualified. No such appointment, however,
shall be made by the Mayor within 30 days before the expiration of his or her
term of office.
(65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1) (1999 Code, § 4-2-2)
§ 32.22 FIRST APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall
appoint the members to the Board. The members shall serve a three-year term, or
until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
   (B)   Vacancies on the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall be
filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
   (C)   The Board members shall elect a Chairperson to serve during the
municipal fiscal year.
   (D)   A majority of the Board constitutes a quorum for the conduct of all
business.
(65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-2) (1999 Code, § 4-2-3)
§ 32.23 QUALIFICATIONS; OATH; BOND; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The members of the Board shall possess the qualifications required of
other officers of the municipality and shall file an oath or affirmation and a
fidelity bond in the amount of $1,000. The bond shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   No person holding an office under a municipality, shall be a member of
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners or the Secretary thereof.
      (1)   The acceptance of any such office by a member of the Board shall be
treated as a resignation of his or her office as a member of the Board or the
Secretary thereof.
      (2)   No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the
degree of first cousin, to any elected official of this municipality.
      (3)   No more than two members of the Board shall belong to the same
political party existing in this city at the time of such appointments and as
defined in the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/10-2.
      (4)   If only one or no political party exists in this city at the time
of such appointment, then state or national political party affiliations shall
be considered in making such appointments.
      (5)   Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of the person
appointed as a member of the Board.
   (C)   The members shall comply with the qualifications of statute and the
members shall not be subject to removal, except for cause, upon written
charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within 30 days, and his or her or
their own defense before a regular meeting of the City Council. A majority vote
of the elected members of such City Council shall be required to remove any
such member from office.
(65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3) (1999 Code, § 4-2-4)
§ 32.24 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all full-time
officers and members of the Police and Fire Departments of the city, except the
Chief of Police and Fire Chief, who shall be appointed according to the
provisions of §
32.29.
   (B)   All appointments to each department other than that of lowest rank,
however, shall be from the rank next below that to which the appointment is
made, except that the Chief of Police and Fire Chief may be appointed from
among the members of the departments, regardless of rank.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-5)
§ 32.25 RULES; PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board shall make rules to carry out the purpose of the statutes of
the state, and for appointments and removals in accordance with the provisions
which are now, or as may hereafter be given to it by law. The Board, from time
to time, may make changes in these rules.
   (B)   All these rules and changes therein shall be printed immediately for
distribution. The Board shall give notice of the places where the printed rules
may be obtained, and of the date, not less than ten days subsequent to the time
of publication, when the rules or changes therein shall go into operation.
   (C)   These rules of the Board shall apply only to the conduct of
examinations for original appointments, for promotions, and to the conduct of
hearings on charges brought against a member of the Police or Fire Department.
No such rule shall be made by the Board to govern the operation of the Police
Department or Fire Department or the conduct of its members.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-6)
§ 32.26 SECRETARY.
   The Board may appoint a Secretary or may designate one of its own members to
act as such. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the Board proceedings,
shall be custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of the Board, shall
keep a record of all examinations held, and shall perform such other duties as
the Board shall prescribe.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-7)
§ 32.27 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, and their
Secretary, if appointed, shall serve without compensation.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-8)
§ 32.28 COMPLIANCE.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall hereafter perform and
strictly carry out all the terms and provisions contained in the 65 ILCS 5/10-
2.1 and 5/10-3, to the same extent as if the statute were set out herein.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-9)
§ 32.29 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS, MEMBERS, AND CHIEFS.
   In accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all
full-time officers and members of the Fire and Police Departments of the city,
except that the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-10) (Ord. 16-85, passed 10-22-1985)
§ 32.30 CITY OFFICER.
   (A)   The term POLICE OFFICER as used in this subchapter does not include
auxiliary police officers, except as provided for in 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-6.
   (B)   Any full time member of a regular Fire or Police Department of this
city who comes under the provisions of this subchapter is a city officer.
(1999 Code, § 4-2-11)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
§ 32.45 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Foreign Fire Insurance Board in the Fire
Department pursuant to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-10-2.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 32.46 MEMBERS OF BOARD.
   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall consist of three officers, a
President, Secretary and Treasurer, who shall be members of the Fire Department
to be elected by the members of the Fire Department.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 32.47 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The aforesaid officers shall make all needful rules and regulations with
respect to the Board and the management of the money appropriated to the Board,
not inconsistent with this subchapter, provided such money is expended for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 32.48 LIST OF APPROPRIATE EXPENDITURES.
   The officers of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall develop and maintain
listings of those items that the Board feels are appropriate expenditures under
the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-10-2, a copy of such listing to be filed with
the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-4)
§ 32.49 APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   All of the money paid to the City Treasurer as provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-10-
1 shall be set apart and shall be appropriated annually by the City Council to
the Foreign Fire Insurance Board.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-5)
§ 32.50 TREASURER’S BOND.
   The Treasurer of the Board shall give bond to the city to be approved by the
Mayor conditioned upon the faithful performance by the Treasurer of his or her
duties under this subchapter, and the rules and regulations provided for by §
32.47.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-6)
§ 32.51 LAWFUL EXPENDITURES.
   The Treasurer of the Board shall receive the appropriated money and shall
pay out the money upon the order of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Department.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-7)
§ 32.52 AUDIT OF FUNDS.
   As part of the city’s annual audit, the money received by the Treasurer
shall be audited to verify that the purchases for which such money was expended
were for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Department.
(1999 Code, § 4-3-8) (Ord. 02-08, passed 2-26-2007)
CHAPTER 33: EMPLOYEES
Section
Personnel Code
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Applicability
   
33.04   Appointment of officials and supervisory personnel
   
33.05   Probationary period
   
33.06   Residency
   
33.07   Accidents
   
33.08   Dismissal
   
33.09   Outside employment
   
33.10   Grievances
   
33.11   Military leave
   
33.12   Leave of absence
   
33.13   Absence without leave
   
33.14   Special leave
   
33.15   Traveling expense
   
33.16   Retirement
   
33.17   Resignation
   
33.18   Work days and work week
   
33.19   Layoff and recall
   
33.20   Vacations
   
33.21   Terminal pay
   
33.22   Sick days
   
33.23   Obligation to citizens
   
33.24   Previously earned rights
   
33.25   Overtime pay
   
33.26   Holiday pay
   
33.27   Wage rate increase
   
33.28   Part-time police officers and firefighters
Department Supervisors
   
33.40   Composition and applicability
PERSONNEL CODE
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD or SUPERINTENDENT. Any elected or appointed person who has
direct supervision and responsibility for personnel, records, funds,
maintenance and service to be performed by a municipal department.
   ELIGIBLE. An applicant for employment in a position who has met all
requirements of such position.
   EMERGENCY APPOINTMENT. An appointment to a position to meet an emergency
situation.
   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee whose regular hours of duty are a normal
schedule work day and work week.
   MUNICIPAL OFFICER, MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE. An officer differs from an employee
of the city. Generally, an officer takes an oath of office, while an employee
does not. The duties of an officer clothe him or her with discretion, and the
power to bind the city, whereas the duties and services of an employee are
purely ministerial.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. Any person who works less than 40 hours per week or less
than 600 hours per year; an employee whose regular hours of duty are less than
a normal scheduled work day, work week or work month.
   RESIGNATION. A voluntary separation from city employment reported in writing
and signed by the employee.
   TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT. An appointment to a position in the service of the
city which is temporary or seasonal in nature.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-1)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish for the city a system of
personnel administration based on merit principles and scientific methods,
governing the appointment, promotion, transfer, lay-off, discipline and removal
of supervisors and employees.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-2)
§ 33.03 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to all municipal employees, except
the City Attorney.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-3)
§ 33.04 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIALS AND SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL.
   The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall
appoint all personnel except as otherwise provided by this code, elected
officials and those employees directly responsible to elected officials other
than the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-4)
§ 33.05 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   The first year of service of an employee shall be the probationary period.
The supervisor or superintendent over the employee shall complete employee
rating forms for each person hired. After discussing the performance with the
employee, the employee shall sign the rating form and the supervisor shall
return the completed form to the Mayor for his or her review and action.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-5)
§ 33.06 RESIDENCY.
   Personnel hereafter employed by the city may reside within a radius of ten
miles of the existing corporate limits of the city or reside within the
geographic boundaries of the county. This provision may be waived by the City
Council for good and sufficient reason when not in conflict with the statutes
of the state. Personnel shall maintain an up-to-date record of the employee’s
address on file with the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-6) (Ord. 20-2004, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 33.07 ACCIDENTS.
   Personnel involved in, or having any knowledge of, any accident whereby any
person employed by the city, or any property or equipment owned or operated by
the city is involved; shall immediately report the accident and pertinent
information to the department head, who shall forward such information to the
office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall record the information and
prepare three copies of the applicable accident form, one copy to be forwarded
to the insurance carrier, one copy to the City Attorney, and one copy retained
on file in the office of the City Clerk. This provision shall be in addition to
the requirement of reporting accidents as provided for in 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
seq., the IllinoisVehicle Code.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-7)
§ 33.08 DISMISSAL.
   The Mayor shall have power to remove any appointed employee or official, on
any formal charge, whenever he or she shall be of the opinion that the
interests of the city demand such a removal in accordance with the provisions
of §
31.086.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-8)
§ 33.09 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   Outside employment is generally incompatible to full-time public service. No
municipal employee shall engage in any outside employment which will impair the
performance of his or her duties or be detrimental to the municipal service.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-9)
§ 33.10 GRIEVANCES.
   (A)   Employees with a grievance of any kind arising out of their employment
by the city, except requests for a general wage increase, shall have the right
of appeal to their immediate department supervisor.
   (B)   Appeals shall be made in writing and may be presented by the employee
individually or by the said employee’s selected representatives. In the event
the grievance cannot be settled between the department head and the employee,
or his or her selected representative, the department head shall submit a
report in writing, one copy to the Aldermanic Chairperson of the department and
one copy to the Mayor. The Mayor shall have the opportunity to settle and
determine said grievance. In the event the decision of the Mayor is not
satisfactory to the aggrieved employee, the aggrieved employee shall have the
right to appeal such decision to the City Council. In the event of such appeal,
the City Council by a majority vote of all its members shall determine the
disposition of the grievance.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-10)
§ 33.11 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Any permanent municipal employee who is inducted into the armed forces
of the United States for training or service, shall be granted a leave of
absence without pay for the duration of such time required for such purposes,
and for a period of 90 calendar days following the period of actual service.
Upon termination of such service, the employee shall have the right to return
to his or her position within said 90 days, provided the position still exists
and the employee is still otherwise qualified. Vacancies resulting from leaves
granted under this section shall be filled only on a temporary basis. One
voluntary enlistment shall be considered the same as induction for the purpose
of this section, but re-enlistment shall not.
   (B)   Permanent employees who are members of regular reserve components of
the armed forces or the National Guard may be granted two weeks leave each year
for active duty training. Upon presentation of the proper evidence, the
difference in pay between the employees’ regular pay and the military pay will
be allowed.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-11)
§ 33.12 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   Leave of absence without pay may be granted for a period not to exceed 60
days when the granting of such leave is in the mutual interests of the city and
the employee. Such leave shall require approval of the department head and the
Mayor. A leave of absence without pay and not to exceed five working days shall
be granted by the department head or the Mayor, in the event of a death in the
immediate family of an employee.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-12)
§ 33.13 ABSENCE WITHOUT LEAVE.
   No employee may absent himself or herself from duty without permission of
his or her department head, or the Mayor. Absence without leave shall be
sufficient cause for forfeiture of all rights and privileges earned while
employed. An employee absent for three consecutive working days without notice
and without sufficient reason shall be considered to have resigned.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-13)
§ 33.14 SPECIAL LEAVE.
   Employees or officials on special leave for official city business, special
education or training, upon authorization by the Council, shall receive a
regular pay during the period of said leave. It is further provided that the
Council may authorize that all necessary expenses be paid by the city.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-14)
§ 33.15 TRAVELING EXPENSE.
   (A)   Request for travel expense funds for official city business, special
education or training, shall be submitted to the City Council for approval on
an authorized form obtainable from the City Clerk’s office, except, due to an
immediate need, the Mayor and not less than two members of the Finance
Committee may approve such travel expense funds in lieu of Council action. Upon
such approval, the City Clerk shall make payment.
   (B)   All expenses incurred for official city business, special education or
training shall be reported in writing within five days upon return to duty, and
submitted to the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   In the event that the travel expense reported is greater than the
amount advanced or authorized by Council action, a claim may be filed and
submitted to the Council and, upon approval of the claim, authorized payment
will be made.
   (D)   Airfare.
      (1)   Travelers are expected to obtain the lowest available airfare that
reasonably meets business travel needs.
      (2)   Travelers shall book flights at least 30 days in advance.
      (3)   Only coach or economy tickets will be paid or reimbursed. The
traveler will pay the difference between higher priced tickets and coach or
economy tickets with his or her personal funds.
   (E)   Automobiles.
      (1)   Use of a personal vehicle for business must be approved prior to
the use.
      (2)   Mileage reimbursement will be based on mileage from the work
location to the off-site location of the official business, not from the
employee's or officer's residence.
      (3)   When attending a training event or other off-site official business
directly from an employee's or officer's residence, no reimbursement will be
made if the distance is less than the mileage of a normal commute to the
workplace.
      (4)   If the distance is greater than the employee's or officer's normal
commute to the workplace, reimbursement will be paid based on the differential
of the commute less the mileage of a normal commute to the workplace.
      (5)   An employee or officer will be reimbursed at the prevailing IRS
mileage rate.
   (F)   Automobile rentals.
      (1)   Travelers will be reimbursed for the cost of renting an automobile
including gasoline expense only as limited in this section.
      (2)   Travelers using rental cars to conduct official business are
required to purchase insurance through the rental agency.
      (3)   Compact or mid-sized cars are required for two or fewer employees
or officers traveling together and a full-sized vehicle may be used for three
or more travelers.
      (4)   The traveler must refuel the vehicle before returning it to the
rental agency,
   (G)   Other transportation. The traveler should utilize hotel shuttle
service or other shuttle services, if available. If none are offered, the use
of the most economic transportation is encouraged.
   (H)   Accommodations.
      (1)   All accommodations must be approved by the city prior to travel.
      (2)   The traveler will be reimbursed for a standard single-room at
locations convenient to the business activity.
      (3)   In the event of a change in plans or a cancellation, the traveler
must cancel the hotel/motel reservation so as not to incur cancellation charges
Cancellation charges will not be reimbursed by the city unless approved by a
vote of the City Council.
   (I)   Meals.
      (1)   Prior approval by the city council and submission of receipts are
required for per diem allowances.
      (2)   Meals provided by the conference or seminar should be deducted from
the per diem allowance.
   (J)   Entertainment expenses. No employee or officer shall be reimbursed for
any entertainment expense, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program,
event, or other official business.
   (K)   All documents and information submitted under this section are public
records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
   (L)   The city hereby adopts as its official standardized form for the
submission of travel, meal, and lodging expenses the Travel, Meal, and Lodging
Expense Report form attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference
as if fully set forth herein.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-15) (Ord. 02-19, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 33.16 RETIREMENT.
   Personnel shall retire from municipal duty at the age of 65, and the day of
such retirement shall be at the end of the municipal fiscal year in which their
sixty-fifth birthday is reached, provided, however, that the Council may waive
this provision when any of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   Extension of duties of each municipal year may be granted upon a
determination by the city physician that an employee or official is physically
able to perform his or her normal duties;
   (B)   That a qualified replacement is unavailable; or
   (C)   That such an extension is for the best interests of the city.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-16)
§ 33.17 RESIGNATION.
   To resign in good standing, appointed personnel shall submit resignations in
writing one calendar month in advance of the effective date of their
resignation.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-17)
§ 33.18 WORK DAYS AND WORK WEEK.
   Unless otherwise agreed upon or provided for and except in case of
emergency, as determined by the department head or Mayor, the municipal work
week shall be 40 hours per week. There shall be provided at least eight hours
rest in each 24-hour period. Department heads shall establish a normal work day
specifically designating the starting time, the quitting time and the lunch
period, which time shall be strictly adhered to by the municipal employees
concerned. Employees shall be at their places of work according to these
departmental regulations. All departments shall maintain a daily attendance
record of employees, and file a daily absentee report and/or a termination
report with the City Clerk and shall furnish periodic reports to the Mayor and
City Council. The provisions of this section shall not apply to department
heads or officials.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-18)
§ 33.19 LAY-OFF AND RECALL.
   Department heads shall lay off employees when necessary due to changes in
duties or lack of work or funds.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-19)
§ 33.20 VACATIONS.
   Annual vacation leave with full pay shall be allowed each employee or
appointed official of the city who worked full-time for the city, and who is
not on an hourly paid basis, as follows: one week vacation for those who have
served the city for a period of one to three years prior to June 1 of the
summer in which the vacation leave is to be taken; for those with three or more
years so calculated, then two weeks. Vacation leave shall not be cumulative and
personnel shall take earned vacations within one year following the anniversary
date of the earned vacation, except that the department head or Mayor, at his
or her discretion, may allowed earned vacation time to accumulate when it is
for the best interest of the city. Personnel desiring vacation leave shall
submit request for leave to the department head 30 days in advance, except such
personnel desiring vacation leave during the months of June, July, August and
September, who shall submit their request prior to May 1 of each year.
Department heads shall schedule vacations, giving due consideration to
seniority rights, the needs of the service, and the remaining staff to perform
the necessary duties of the department. A vacation schedule shall be posted, at
each department headquarters, on or before May 15 of each year if so requested.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-20)
§ 33.21 TERMINAL PAY.
   Employees who leave the service of the city for any reason shall receive all
pay which may be due them with the following qualifications.
   (A)   Employees shall be paid for all unused accrued vacations provided that
the department head is notified by the employee of his or her leaving two weeks
in advance or sufficient reason is given in the absence of such notice.
   (B)   An employee who owes any money to the city at the time of his or her
separation shall have his or her final pay applied against the account of
whatever amount may be needed to satisfy it and shall be given a receipt for
the amount credited. Partial settlement of an account by application of final
pay shall not release an employee from any balance remaining due.
   (C)   In case of death of an employee, his or her estate shall be paid for
accrued vacation and regular pay then accrued.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-21)
§ 33.22 SICK DAYS.
   (A)   All employees shall be entitled to be paid for ten sick days for each
calendar year.
   (B)   Each employee shall be entitled unlimited accumulation of sick days
not used.
   (C)   Any employee who is absent from work over three consecutive working
days shall be required to secure from a physician written verification of their
illness before the city shall make payment for sick days.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-33) (Ord. 8-78, passed - -)
§ 33.23 OBLIGATION TO CITIZENS.
   (A)   No municipal official or employee shall grant special consideration,
treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which is available to every
other citizen or group.
   (B)   Municipal officials or employees shall at all times conscientiously
and faithfully perform their duties.
   (C)   They shall be tactful, patient and courteous in answering all
inquiries.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-23)
§ 33.24 PREVIOUSLY EARNED RIGHTS.
   Any rights which have vested in any employee or officer affected by this
subchapter under the previous ordinances of the city are hereby saved and
reserved.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-24)
§ 33.25 OVERTIME PAY.
   All employees of the city shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of time
and one-half their hourly rate for all weekly time worked beyond 40 hours.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-25) (Ord. 8-78, passed - -)
§ 33.26 HOLIDAY PAY.
   All employees of the city who are scheduled to work by their respective
department supervisors the following recognized holidays shall be entitled to
be paid double the employee’s regular hourly rate: New Year’s Day, Good Friday,
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day.
(1999 Code, § 13-1-26) (Ord. 8-78, passed - -)
§ 33.27 WAGE RATE INCREASE.
   All full-time non-union employees in water office are hereby entitled to an
increase in the hourly wage as follows: effective 8-1-1995, additional $0.35
per scheduled work hour.
(Ord. 10-94, passed 4-12-1994; Ord. 9-94, passed 3-22-1994)
§ 33.28 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   The wages to be paid to part-time police officers and firefighters may be
determined annually with advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 11-2000, passed 9-26-2000; Ord. 02-22, passed 2-24-2022)
DEPARTMENT SUPERVISORS
§ 33.40 COMPOSITION AND APPLICABILITY.
    The following wages and benefits are hereby established for the department
of the city.
   (A)   The department supervisor shall be known as the Police Chief, and Fire
Chief.
   (B)   Chiefs are salaried positions, appointed by the Mayor with advice and
consent of the City Council.
   (C)   Salary increases may be determined annually and brought to the City
Council for approval.
   (D)   The administration, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
shall have the right to freeze any established salary at a time of financial
crisis.
   (E)   Starting salary for all chiefs and increases shall be as follows:
      (1)   Fifty-five thousand dollars per year for Chief of Police.
      (2)   Forty thousand five hundred dollars for Chief of Fire.
   (F)   A cost of living adjustment (COLA) and/or merit salary increase may be
determined annually and approved by the City Council. Any salary adjustments
shall be voted on by the City Council as a separate vote and not by omnibus
vote.
   (G)   After every five years of employment with the city, supervisor shall
receive $25 per month of longevity pay.
   (H)   All chiefs shall receive a clothing/uniform allowance of the same
amount and fashion as their respective department employees have.
   (I)   Holidays allowed to chiefs shall be consistent with what their
respective department employees receive.
   (J)   Vacation days for chiefs shall be:
      (1)   One year to less than five years: ten days per year;
      (2)   Five years to less than 15 years: 15 days per year; and
      (3)   Fifteen years and over: 20 days per year.
   (K)   Sick leave shall be earned at the same rate as their respective
department employees. At retirement and separation from employment (age 55 or
older), up to 120 earned and unused sick days shall be paid in case at 33-1/3%
of their final rate of pay.
   (L)   Chiefs may carry over no more than one week of vacation, or be paid
out for more than one week per year.
(1999 Code, § 13-2-1) (Ord. 02-07, passed 1-9-2007; Ord. 04-20, passed 3-10-
2020)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Civil Emergency
   
34.001   Definitions
   
34.002   Declaration of emergency
   
34.003   Curfew
   
34.004   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
34.005   Effectiveness
   
34.006   Notification
Police Department
   
34.020   Department established
   
34.021   Office of Chief created
   
34.022   Duties of the Chief of Police
   
34.023   Police report
   
34.024   Police record
   
34.025   Appointment
   
34.026   Salary
   
34.027   Duties
   
34.028   Special police officers
   
34.029   Legal processes
   
34.030   Assisting police officer
   
34.031   Aiding Fire Department
   
34.032   Failure to perform
   
34.033   Aiding in escape
   
34.034   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
34.035   Witness fees
   
34.036   Rules and regulations
   
34.037   Stolen property
   
34.038   Mutual aid contract
   
34.039   Part-time police officers
   
34.040   Police pre-employment contract
Auxiliary Police
   
34.055   Creation
   
34.056   Number and supervision
   
34.057   Conservators of peace
   
34.058   Firearms
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
34.070   Policy and procedures
   
34.071   Limitations
   
34.072   Definitions
   
34.073   Emergency services and disaster agency
   
34.074   Powers of the Mayor
   
34.075   Financing
   
34.076   Local disaster emergencies
   
34.077   Testing of disaster warning devices
   
34.078   Mutual aid arrangements between political subdivisions
   
34.079   Communications
   
34.080   Immunity
   
34.081   Professions, trades and occupations
   
34.082   Appropriations and levy of tax
   
34.083   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
   
34.084   Orders, rules and regulations
   
34.085   Utilization of existing agency, facilities and personnel
   
34.086   Validity
   
34.087   No private liability
   
34.088   Succession
   
34.089   Compensation
   
34.090   Personnel oath
   
34.091   Emergency termination or reduction of electrical service
Fire Department
   
34.105   Administration
   
34.106   Firefighters’ organization
   
34.107   Regulations
   
34.108   Nonresident fees
Public Safety Director
   
34.120   Creation of position
   
34.121   Appointment
 
   
34.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Mutual Aid Box Alarm System Agreement
CIVIL EMERGENCY
§ 34.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly, characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city excepting officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
the civil emergency.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 34.002 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency, as defined in §
34.001, exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 34.003 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to the city
as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the
day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety
and welfare.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 34.004 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and/or
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 34.005 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor, indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to
reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 34.006 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the city and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the city:
   (A)   The City Hall;
   (B)   The post office; and
   (C)   The county courthouse.
(1999 Code, § 30-1-6)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.020 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city, which shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Department
shall consist of the Chief of Police and of such other officers and patrol
officers as may be provided from time to time by the City Council. The
Department shall be under the supervision of the Board of Police and Fire
Commissioners.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 34.021 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby established the office of the Chief of Police. The Chief of
Police shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-2)
§ 34.022 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall exercise general management and control of the
Police Department.
   (A)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct and
performance of all officers and employees of said Department as the Department
head in accordance with the Personnel Code.
   (B)   He or she shall be the custodian of all stolen goods or other property
received and retained under police authority.
   (C)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the city for the use of said Department.
   (D)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this code and make such
inspections as necessary for that purpose.
   (E)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be as signed to him
or her by the provisions of this code or by the corporate authorities.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 34.023 POLICE REPORT.
   The Chief of Police shall report to the City Council at the first regular
meeting each month and at the end of each municipal year thereof. A report in
writing of the activities of his or her Department shall set forth the number
of arrests, by whom made, and on what charge, the number of prosecutions for
the recovery of fines, before what court brought, how disposed of, together
with a statement of all property received by him or her during the period
covered by such report, by virtue of his or her office.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 34.024 POLICE RECORD.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall provide a suitable police record, which
shall be kept at the City Hall and in which each officer making an arrest shall
enter the name of the person arrested, where arrested, on what charge, what
property, if any, was taken or found on such person, and how disposed of, and
shall also record his or her own name as the officer making the arrest.
   (B)   The disposition of all cases arising out of such arrests shall be
shown on such record.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 34.025 APPOINTMENT.
   A sufficient number of patrol officers shall be appointed by the Board of
Police and Fire Commissioners to serve for one year or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified. A police officer may be appointed to
office by the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners if he or she meets the
necessary qualifications, notwithstanding the fact that the police officer is
not a resident of the city when appointed or when he or she is to serve as such
an official.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 34.026 SALARY.
   The Police Department shall receive such compensation as may be provided by
city ordinance or by resolution of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 34.027 DUTIES.
   The police officer shall devote his or her entire time to the performance of
the duties of his or her office and is hereby charged with the preservation of
the peace, order and safety of the city and with the duty of protecting the
rights of persons and property and of enforcing all laws and also all orders of
the City Council. He or she shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions
and defects on the highways or other public places, and shall cause the same to
be abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer
whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto. When requested by the
Mayor he or she shall attend, either in person or by deputy, all meetings of
the City Council, execute all its orders and close the Council chamber upon the
adjournment of that body. He or she shall also execute all warrants or other
legal process required to be executed by him or her under any ordinance of the
city or laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 34.028 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor may, on special occasions when, in his or her judgment for public
peace and order of the city shall require, appoint and commission any number of
special or part-time police officers as may be necessary and shall fix in order
of their appointment, the time during which each shall serve and all such
special police officers, during such time, shall possess the powers and
exercise the duties of regular police patrol officers provided that their
appointment, if for more than ten days, shall be subject to the consent of the
City Council in the manner that other appointments to office by the Mayor are
subject. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with the
permission of the Chief of Police, and then only when in uniform and in the
performance of their duties.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 34.029 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute city warrants or
other similar legal processes outside the corporate limits of the city and
within such distance therefrom as authorized by law in all cases when any
ordinance of the City Council made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty
for the violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting or doing
any business within the limits of the city.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 34.030 ASSISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   Every police officer of the city may, at anytime, call upon any able-bodied
person(s) above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting,
retaking or holding in custody of any person guilty of having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 34.031 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 34.032 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this code or the rules and regulations of
the Department, or who shall be, in the discharge of his or her official
duties, guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions or willful
wrong or injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-13)
§ 34.033 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in this city to resist or obstruct any
member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or to endeavor
to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member of the
Police Department to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody or to
attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-14) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.034 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the city shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor of
any kind and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for removal.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-15) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.035 WITNESS FEES.
   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the city is a party; and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police who shall deposit the same
with the City Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 34.036 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the Police Department as he or she shall
deem advisable and such rules, when approved by the Board of Police and Fire
Commissioners, shall be binding on such members.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 34.037 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the city.
(1999 Code, § 30-2-18)
§ 34.038 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the City Council, may enter into
an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 et seq.) (1999 Code, § 30-2-19)
§ 34.039 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the City Police Department, but the number of hours a part-
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city, shall not have any property rights in said employment,
and may be removed by the city at any time. Part-time police officers shall
comply with all applicable rules and general orders issued by the City Police
Department.
(Ord. 11-13, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 34.040 POLICE PRE-EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT.
   (A)   The City Council hereby determines that it is advisable, necessary and
in the interests of the general welfare that the municipality create and
establish a police preemployment contract for potential employees of the
municipality for the purpose of recovering expenditures made by the
municipality in connection with hiring and training an applicant who becomes an
employee of the municipality.
   (B)   The contract shall be in substantially the following form:
A PREEMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY
OF JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS
   This Agreement is entered into this __________ day of
_______________________, 20____, between __________(hereinafter referred to as
(“Applicant”)), and the City of Johnston City, Illinois (hereinafter referred
to as “City”).
THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT INTENDED TO BE A CONTRACT FOR EMPLOYMENT, BUT IS ONLY A
PREEMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT. IT IS UNDERSTOOD BY AND BETWEEN THE APPLICANT AND THE
CITY THAT EMPLOYMENT WITH THE CITY IS STRICTLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AT WILL AND
THIS PREEMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT NEITHER IMPLICITLY NOR EXPRESSLY ALTERS THAT FIRM
UNDERSTANDING.
WHEREAS, Applicant has expressed interest in becoming an employee of the City;
and
WHEREAS, Applicant understands that, should he/she be hired as an employee of
the City, the City will incur various expenses, including but not limited to,
costs of administering tests and conducting interviews; costs of performing
background investigations; costs of providing equipment; costs for training
sessions; and salary paid to the Applicant during their training; and,
WHEREAS, City is willing to assume the various costs associated with the
examination, interviewing, and investigation of the applicant/prospective
employee and the provision of equipment, training, and salary during training
for the newly-hired Employee, provided the City receives a commitment from an
applicant that he/she will not voluntarily or involuntary separate from the
employ of the City for a minimum period of (36) months; and,
WHEREAS, the City seeks to have well-trained employees in the employ of the
City; and
WHEREAS, the Applicant understands and acknowledges that should he/she be hired
as an employee of the City he/she must remain in the employ of the City for a
minimum of thirty-six months or else reimburse the City for the expenses
incurred by the City in testing, interviewing, equipping, and training him/her
according to Section 3.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained
hereinbelow, the parties do freely and voluntarily enter into this Agreement.
SECTION 1. The recitals stated above are incorporated herein as part of this
Agreement.
SECTION 2. The City agrees to:
   (a)   consider the Applicant for employment as an employee of the City in
the ordinary course of procedures;
   (b)   if need be administer various examinations in order to determine
whether the Applicant, is an appropriate candidate for employment as an
employee of the City;
   (c)   it need be provide initial equipment;
   (d)   if need be provide such training and instruction as the City, in its
sole discretion, deems appropriate; and,
   (e)   pay the Applicant’s full wages during any period in which the
Applicant is being trained provided the Applicant in hired as on employee.
   (f)   make any appropriate per diem payments for extended training away from
the City.
SECTION 3. Applicant agrees that should he/she be hired as, an employee he/she
will not voluntarily or involuntarily separate from the employ of the City for
a minimum of thirty-six (36) months from the date of hire has elapsed,
otherwise he/she will reimburse the City for any and all costs incurred, as
enumerated in Section 4 below at the following rate:
   (a)   one hundred percent (100%), if separation is prior to twenty-four (24)
months having elapsed from date of hire; and,
   (b)   fifty percent (50%), if separation occurs prior to the time thirty-six
(36) months, but more than twenty-four (24) months have elapsed.
SECTION 4. Schedule of costs which may be incurred by the City:
   (a)   administration of written and physical agility examination;
   (b)   interviews;
   (c)   background investigation;
   (d)   medical, psychiatric, drug-screening and other employment-related
examinations;
   (e)   equipment issued by the City;
   (f)   basic training; and,
   (g)   salary and per diem paid during field training sessions and basic
training.
SECTION 5. The obligations under this Agreement shall terminate after the
completion of thirty-six (36) months from the date of hire.
SECTION 6. The Applicant understands that employment with the City is
contingent upon his/her completion of a probationary period of twelve (12)
months and continued performance to the satisfaction of the City. Nothing
contained herein shall be construed as a promise or agreement by the City to
retain the Applicant as an employee of the City for thirty-six (36) months or
any portion thereof, or thereafter.
SECTION 7. The City does not, by this Agreement, waive any of the rights,
privileges, or prerogatives it possess now or hereafter in effect.
SECTION 8. The Applicant agrees that should it become necessary for the City to
file suit in order to collect the costs as enumerated in Section 4, he/she will
pay all costs of said suit, including reasonable attorney’s fees and all
interest allowed at the legal rate on the amount which is owned,
SECTION 9. The Applicant agrees that the City may retain any money from his/her
paycheck, including but not limited to payment for any unused vacation, sick
leave, and compensatory time, to satisfy, either in full or in part, payment of
the costs enumerated in Section 4. The Applicant authorizes the City to retain
monies from his/her paycheck to satisfy these payments. The Applicant agrees
that the retainage authorized by this section shall not operate to waive the
right of the City to commence legal proceedings against him/her to recoup any
outstanding balance.
SECTION 10. The Applicant acknowledges that he/she has examined this Agreement,
that he/she has read and understands this Agreement, and that he/she has the
right to consult an attorney prior to entering this Agreement.
SECTION 11. Any notice that may be required by this Agreement shall be sent to
the parties at the addresses below:
Applicant:               City:
___________________________      City Clerk
___________________________      100 West Broadway Blvd.
___________________________      Johnston City, IL 62951
SECTION 12. The invalidity of any portion of this Agreement will not and shall
not affect the validity of any other provision. In the event, that any
provision of this Agreement; is held to be invalid, the parties agree that the
remaining provisions; shall be deemed in full force and effect as if they had
been executed by both parties subsequent to the expungement of the invalid
provision.
SECTION 13. No modification of this Agreement shall be binding unless evidenced
in writing and signed by both parties.
SECTION 14. The City agrees that it will not seek any of the costs enumerated
in Section 4 should the City terminate or discharge the Applicant from the
City.
Executed this ________________ day of _____________________, 20____, at
Johnston City, Williamson County, Illinois.
City:
by: ______________________________
title: _________________________________
Applicant:
by: ______________________________
Witness:
___________________________________________________
   (C)   From and after the effective date of this section, the Mayor of the
city is hereby authorized and directed to execute the agreement herein provided
for, and to do all things necessary and essential, including the execution of
any documents and certificates, to carry out the provisions of the agreement.
(Ord. 01-13, passed 1-8-2013)
AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 34.055 CREATION.
   The creation of auxiliary police officers in the Police Department is hereby
approved.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-1)
§ 34.056 NUMBER AND SUPERVISION.
   The number and supervision of auxiliary police officers in the Police
Department shall be at the discretion of the Chief of Police or his or her
designee.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-2)
§ 34.057 CONSERVATORS OF PEACE.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not be considered conservators of the peace.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-3)
§ 34.058 FIREARMS.
   Auxiliary police officers shall be permitted to carry firearms upon meeting
all training requirements of the state and only while in a police uniform to,
during and from their tour of duty as an auxiliary police officer for the city.
(1999 Code, § 30-3-4) (Ord. 11-09, passed 8-11-2009)
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 34.070 POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Because of the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from the explosion in this or
in a neighboring municipality of atomic or other means from without, or by
means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood,
earthquake or other natural or human-made causes, and in order to ensure that
this municipality will be prepared to and will adequately deal with any such
disasters, preserve the lives and property of the people of this municipality
and protect the public peace, health and safety in the event of such a
disaster, it is found and declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To create a municipal emergency services and disaster agency;
      (2)   To confer upon the Mayor the extraordinary power and authority set
forth under §§
34.001 through
34.006; and
      (3)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid to other cities and
political subdivisions with respect to the carrying out of emergency services
and disaster operations.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor determines after an investigation that a dangerous
situation or a potentially dangerous situation exists which could cause death
to individuals or serious injury to property or the health and welfare of
public, the Mayor may declare that a state of emergency exists. The
extraordinary powers may not be exercised until an ordinance shall have been
adopted which shall establish standards for the determination by the Mayor of
when the state of emergency exists, and shall provide that the Mayor may not
exercise such extraordinary power and authority, except after signing under
oath a statement finding that such standards have been met, setting forth facts
to substantiate such findings, describing the nature of the emergency and
declaring that a state of emergency exists. This statement shall be filed with
the Clerk of the municipality as soon as practical. A state of emergency shall
expire not later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
corporate authorities after the state of emergency is declared. A subsequent
state of emergency may be declared if necessary.
   (C)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this code and the policy
of the municipality that all emergency management programs of this municipality
be coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions of the
federal and state governments, including their various departments and
agencies, of other municipalities and localities and private agencies of every
type, to the end that the most effective preparation and use may be made of the
nation’s manpower, resources and facilities for dealing with any disaster that
may occur.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Declaration of emergency, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
§ 34.071 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this code shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute,
except that actions otherwise authorized by this code or other laws may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster;
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; but state and local emergency
operations plans shall place reliance upon the forces available for performance
of functions related to disaster emergencies; or
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the Mayor and the City
Council to exercise any other powers vested in them under the constitution,
statutes or common law of this state, independent of or in conjunction with any
provisions of this code.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-2)
§ 34.072 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The staff assistant to the Mayor with the duty of carrying out
the requirements of this code.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, explosion, critical
shortages of essential fuels and energy, riot, or hostile military or
paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of this municipality to develop, plan,
analyze, conduct, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.  The written plan of the municipality describing
the organization, mission and functions of the government and supporting
services for responding to and recovery from disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The preparation for and the carrying out of such
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood,
earthquake or other human-made or natural causes. These functions including,
without limitation, firefighting services, police services, emergency aviation
services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons defense,
evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency assigned functions of
plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental to protecting life or property.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village or incorporated town.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-3)
§ 34.073 EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Emergency Services and Disaster Agency and
a Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, herein called the
“Coordinator”, who shall be the head thereof. The Coordinator shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council. He or she
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall obtain, with Council
approval, such technical, clerical, stenographic and other administrative
personnel, and may make such expenditures within its appropriation therefor as
may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this code.
   (C)   The Coordinator, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor,
shall be the executive head of the Municipal Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency, and shall be responsible under the direction of the Mayor for carrying
out the program for emergency services and disaster operations of this
municipality. He or she shall coordinate the activities of all organizations
for emergency services and disaster operations within this municipality and
shall maintain liaison, and cooperate with, the civil defense and emergency
management agencies and organization of the county, other counties and
municipalities, and of the federal and state government. In the event of the
absence, resignation, death or inability to serve by the Coordinator, the Mayor
or any persons designated by him or her, shall be and act as Coordinator until
a new appointment is made as provided in this code.
   (D)   The Municipal Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall take an
integral part in the development and revision of the local emergency operations
plan.
   (E)   In the development of the emergency operations plan, the Municipal
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall interrelate with business, labor,
industry, agriculture, civic and volunteer organizations, and community
leaders.
   (F)   The Municipal Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall:
      (1)   Determine the requirements of the municipality for food, clothing
and other necessities in the event of an emergency;
      (2)   Develop an Emergency Operations Plan that meets the standards
promulgated by the State Emergency Management Agency;
      (3)   Biannually review and revise the local Emergency Operations Plan;
      (4)   Establish a register of persons with types of training and skills
in emergency prevention, preparedness, response and recovery;
      (5)   Establish a register of government and private response resources
available for use in a disaster;
      (6)   Prepare, for issuance by the Mayor, ordinances, proclamations and
regulations as necessary or appropriate in coping with disasters;
      (7)   Cooperate with the federal, state and county government and any
public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this code and in
implementing programs for disaster prevention, preparation, response and
recovery;
      (8)   Initiate and coordinate planning for:
         (a)   The establishment of an emergency operating center; and
         (b)   The implementation of a 911 system.
      (9)   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this code.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-4)
§ 34.074 POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the general direction and control of the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, and shall be responsible for the
carrying out of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   In performing his or her duties under this code, the Mayor is
authorized to cooperate with state and federal governments and with other
municipalities and political subdivisions in all matters pertaining to
emergency services and disaster operations defined in this code.
   (C)   In performing his or her duties under this code, the Mayor is further
authorized:
      (1)   To make, amend and rescind all lawful necessary orders, rules and
regulations of the local disaster plan to carry out the provisions of this code
within the limits of the authority conferred upon him or her;
      (2)   To cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and program for the
emergency management of this municipality which plan and program shall be
integrated into and coordinated with disaster plans of the state and federal
governments and other political subdivisions, and which plan and program may
include:
         (a)   Prevention and minimization of injury and damage caused by
disaster;
         (b)   Prompt and effective response to disaster;
         (c)   Emergency relief;
         (d)   Identification of areas particularly vulnerable to disasters;
         (e)   Recommendations for zoning, building and other land use
controls, safety measures for securing permanent structures and other
preventive and preparedness measures designed to eliminate or reduce disasters
or their impact;
         (f)   Assistance to local officials in designing local emergency
action plans;
         (g)   Authorization and procedures for the erection or other
construction of temporary works designed to protect against or mitigate danger,
damage or loss from flood, conflagration or other disaster;
         (h)   Organization of municipal manpower and chains of command;
         (i)   Coordination of local emergency management activities; and
         (j)   Other necessary matters.
      (3)   In accordance with such plan and program for the emergency
management of this municipality, and out of funds appropriated for such
purposes, to procure and preposition supplies, medicines, materials and
equipment to institute training programs and public information programs, and
to take all other preparatory steps, including the partial or full mobilization
of emergency services and disaster organizations in advance of actual disaster
to ensure the furnishing of adequately trained and equipped forces for disaster
operations; and
      (4)   Out of funds appropriated for such purposes, to make such studies
and surveys of the industries, resources and facilities in this municipality as
may be necessary to ascertain the capabilities of the municipality for the
emergency management phases of preparedness, response, and recovery, and to
plan for the most efficient emergency use thereof.
   (D)   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a municipal building, or
elsewhere for the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency as its office.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-5)
§ 34.075 FINANCING.
   (A)   It is the intent of the City Council and declared to be the policy of
the municipality that every effort shall be made to provide funds for disaster
emergencies.
   (B)   It is the City Council’s intent that the first recourse shall be to
funds regularly appropriated to the agency. If the Mayor finds that the demands
placed upon these funds in coping with a particular disaster are unreasonably
great, and the Governor has proclaimed the municipality a disaster, he or she
may make application for funds from the state disaster relief fund. If monies
available from the fund are insufficient, and if the Mayor finds that other
sources of money to cope with the disaster are not available or are
insufficient, he or she shall issue a call for an immediate session of the City
Council for the purpose of enacting ordinances as the City Council may deem
necessary to transfer and expend monies appropriated for other purposes, or
borrow monies from the United States government or other public or private
sources. If less than a quorum of the members of the City Council is capable of
convening in session to enact such ordinances for the transfer, expenditure or
loan of such monies, the Mayor is authorized to carry out those decisions until
such time as a quorum of the City Council can convene.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit the
Mayor’s authority to apply for, administer and expend grants, gifts or payments
in aid of disaster prevention, preparedness, response or recovery.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-6)
§ 34.076 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or City
Council. If declared by the Mayor, it shall not be continued for a period in
excess of seven days, except by or with the consent of the City Council. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster
emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity, and shall be filed
promptly with the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster emergency is to
activate any and all applicable local emergency operations plans and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   During a local disaster emergency, the Mayor may suspend the
provisions of any municipal ordinance prescribing procedures for the conduct of
municipal business, or the orders, rules and regulations of any municipal
agency, if strict compliance with the provisions of any ordinance, rule or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping
with the emergency, as authorized by 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency Act, provided that, if the City Council meets at
such time, he or she shall act subject to the directions and restrictions
imposed by that body.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-7)
§ 34.077 TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES.
   The testing of disaster devices including outdoor warning sirens shall be
held only on the first Tuesday of each month at 10:00 a.m.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-8)
§ 34.078 MUTUAL AID ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator for the emergency services and disaster operations may, in
collaboration with other public agencies within his or her immediate vicinity,
develop or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements with other political
subdivisions, municipal corporations or bodies politic within this state for
reciprocal disaster response and recovery in case a disaster is too great to be
dealt with unassisted. The mutual aid shall not, however, be effective, unless
and until approved by each of such political subdivisions, municipal
corporations or bodies politic as are parties thereto, in the manner provided
by law, and unless and until filed with and approved in writing by the State
Director. Such arrangements shall be consistent with the state and local
emergency management operations plan and program, and in the event of such
disaster as described in §
34.072, it shall be the duty of each local and department for emergency
services and disaster operations to render assistance in accordance with the
provisions of such mutual aid arrangements.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-9)
§ 34.079 COMMUNICATIONS.
   The local Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall ascertain what means
exist for rapid and efficient communications in times of disaster emergencies.
The agency shall consider the desirability of supplementing these
communications resources or of integrating them into a comprehensive system or
network. In studying the character and feasibility of any system or its several
parts, the agency shall evaluate the possibility of multipurpose use thereof
for general municipal and local governmental purposes. The agency shall make
recommendations to the Mayor as appropriate.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-10)
§ 34.080 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the municipality, the agency or any member thereof or any person
acting at their direction, engaged in any emergency services and disaster
operations or disaster activities, while complying with or attempting to comply
with this code or any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to this code is
liable for the death of or any injury to persons, or damage to property, as a
result of such activity. This section does not, however, affect the right of
any person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled
under this act under 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq., the Worker’s Compensation Act, or
820 ILCS 310/1 et seq., the Worker’s Occupational Diseases Act, or under any
pension law, and this section does not affect the right of any such person to
receive any benefits or compensation under any Act of Congress.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-11)
§ 34.081 PROFESSIONS, TRADES AND OCCUPATIONS.
   If such disaster as is described in §
34.072 occurs in this municipality and the services of persons who are
competent to practice any profession, trade or occupation are required in this
municipality to cope with the disaster situation and it appears that the number
of persons licensed or registered in this municipality to practice such
profession, trade or occupation may be insufficient for such purpose, then any
persons who are licensed elsewhere to practice any such profession, trade or
occupation may, if a member of another political subdivision rendering aid in
this municipality pursuant to the order of the head of that political
subdivision and upon the request of the municipality, or if otherwise requested
so to do by the Mayor or the Coordinator of this municipality, during the time
the disaster condition continues, practice such profession, trade or occupation
in this municipality without being licensed or registered in this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-12)
§ 34.082 APPROPRIATIONS AND LEVY OF TAX.
   The City Council may make appropriations for emergency services and disaster
operations in the manner provided by law for making appropriations for the
ordinary expenses of such political subdivision. The City Council may also levy
for emergency services and disaster operations a tax not to exceed 0.05% of the
full, fair cash value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue on
all taxable property in the municipality for the current year; however, the
amount collectible under such a levy shall in no event exceed $0.25 per capita.
The annual tax shall be in addition to and in excess of the amount authorized
to be levied for general corporate purposes.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-13)
§ 34.083 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   Whenever the federal or state governments, or any agency or officer thereof,
or whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the municipality
services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift or grant for
purposes of emergency management, the municipality, acting through the Mayor or
through its City Council, may accept such offer and upon such acceptance the
Mayor or the City Council may authorize any officer of the municipality to
receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds on behalf of the
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-14)
§ 34.084 ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall file a copy of every rule, regulation or order and any
amendment thereof made by him or her pursuant to the provisions of this code in
the office of the Municipal Clerk. No such rule, regulation or order, or any
amendment thereof, shall be effective until ten days after such filing;
provided, however, that upon the declaration of such a disaster emergency by
the Mayor as is described in §
34.076, the provision relating to the effective date of any rule, regulation
order or amendment issued pursuant to this code and during the state of such
disaster emergency, is abrogated, and said rule, regulation, order or amendment
shall become effective immediately upon being filed with the Municipal Clerk,
accompanied by a certificate stating the reason for the emergency.
   (B)   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency established pursuant to
this code, and the Coordinator thereof, shall execute and enforce such orders,
rules and regulations as may be made by the Governor under authority of 20 ILCS
3305/1 et seq., the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act. The local
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall have available for inspection at
its office all orders, rules and regulations made by the Governor, or under
this authority. The State Emergency Management Agency shall furnish such
orders, rules and regulations to the agency.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-15)
§ 34.085 UTILIZATION OF EXISTING AGENCY, FACILITIES AND PERSONNEL.
   In carrying out the provisions of this code, the Mayor and the Coordinator
of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency are directed to utilize the
services, equipment, supplies and facilities of existing departments, offices
and agencies of the municipality to the maximum extent practicable, and the
officers and personnel of all such departments, offices and agencies are
directed, upon request, to cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities to the Coordinator and the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-16)
§ 34.086 VALIDITY.
   If any provision of this code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect such other
provisions or applications of the ordinance which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
code are hereby declared to be severable.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-17)
§ 34.087 NO PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster, or a mock or practice disaster response activity
together with his or her successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly
liable for negligently causing the death of, or injury to, any person on or
about such real estate or premises under such license, privilege or other
permission, or for negligently causing loss of, or damage to, the property of
such person.
   (B)   Any private person, firm or corporation and employees and agents of
such person, firm or corporation in the performance of a contract with, and
under the direction of, the municipality under the provisions of this code,
shall not be civilly liable for causing death of, or injury to, any person or
damage to any property except in the event of willful misconduct.
   (C)   Any private person, firm or corporation, and any employee or agency of
such person, firm or corporation, who renders assistance or advice at the
request of the municipality, shall not be civilly liable for causing the death
of, or injury to, any person or damage to any property except in the event of
willful misconduct. The immunities provided in this division (C) shall not
apply to any private person, firm or corporation, or to any employee or agent
of such person, firm or corporation whose act or omission caused in whole or in
part such actual or impending disaster and who would otherwise be liable
therefore.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-18)
§ 34.088 SUCCESSION.
   In the event of the death, absence from the municipality or other disability
of the Mayor preventing him or her from acting under this code or for any other
municipal purpose, and until the office is filled in the manner prescribed by
law, the Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall
succeed to the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-19)
§ 34.089 COMPENSATION.
   The City Council, by its annual appropriations ordinance, may provide for
the payment of the salary of the Coordinator and such other office staff and
personnel as may be expressly provided for in the ordinance. Nothing herein
contained shall prohibit any member of the agency from receiving compensation
from the State Emergency Management Agency under any provisions of that agency.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-20)
§ 34.090 PERSONNEL OATH.
   Each person, whether compensated or non-compensated, who is appointed to
serve in any capacity in the municipal Emergency Service and Disaster Agency,
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath, in writing, before
the Coordinator of the municipal Emergency Service and Disaster Agency before a
person authorized to administer oaths in this municipality, which oath shall be
filed with the Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, and
which oath shall be substantially as follows:
   “I, ______________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time I am affiliated with the City, I will not advocate nor
become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence.”
(1999 Code, § 30-4-21)
§ 34.091 EMERGENCY TERMINATION OR REDUCTION OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   When in the judgment of the Mayor or City Council, as provided herein in §
34.076(A), a local disaster emergency requires the termination or reduction of
electrical service, the Mayor or City Council shall forthwith declare in
writing the existence of the emergency condition and order the termination or
reduction.
(1999 Code, § 30-4-22)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.105 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Department created. There is hereby created the Fire Department of the
city. The Department shall consist of the Fire Chief and such other
firefighters as the corporate authorities may from time to time deem necessary
to implement the provisions of this subchapter. The Department shall be under
the general supervision of the Public Safety Committee.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-1)
   (B)   Employees. The Fire Chief and all full-time firefighters shall be
appointed in accordance with the provisions of §§
32.20 through
32.30. Volunteer firefighters shall be appointed in accordance with their by-
laws as provided by division (C) below. The Chief shall take an oath of office
as an appointed officer of the city as provided by
Chapters 30 and
31.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-2)
   (C)   Duties of the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall exercise general
management and control of the Fire Department.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall supervise over and be responsible for the
approval of the qualifications of all members of the Fire Department and the
duties that each member is allowed to perform pursuant to his or her
determination of each member’s skill and other qualifications, their conduct
and performance and each member’s compliance with the rules and regulations of
the Fire Department. The Fire Chief may accept information from the Executive
Board of the City Emergency Unit and Volunteer Fire Department related to the
qualifications of any volunteer member of the Department. The Fire Chief shall
report to the City Council any serious violations of the Department’s rules and
regulations with a recommendation of the action(s) to be taken by the City
Council. Those recommendations make include, but are not limited to, censure,
reprimand, suspension or termination.
      (2)   He or she shall investigate, or cause to be investigated, the cause
of all fires occurring within the city.
      (3)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the city for the use of the Department.
      (4)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and make
such inspections as necessary for that purpose.
      (5)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him
or her by the provisions of this code or by the corporate authorities.
      (6)   The Fire Chief shall have the right and with the approval of the
City Council to make all needed and necessary rules and regulations concerning
the care and control of the fire equipment and the discipline of the members of
the Department. After approval of the City Council, those rules and regulations
shall be published to the members of the Fire Department and shall have the
force of and be enforced as an ordinance of the city.
      (7)   T he Fire Chief shall make a report to the City Council at the
first regular meeting of each month of all fires, where located, the cause
thereof, the time and duration thereof, and such other information as may be
requested by the City Council.
      (8)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to appoint an Assistant
Fire Chief if necessary. The starting salary of said Assistant Chief will be
$32,000 per year, with raises to be negotiated and agreed upon by the City
Council.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-3) (Ord. 14-11, passed 8-9-2011; Ord. 12-20, passed 10-13-
2020; Ord. 11-21, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 34.106 FIREFIGHTERS’ ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Volunteers. The volunteer firefighters are hereby authorized to create
an organization and agree to such by-laws as they deem necessary to best govern
themselves. Such by-laws shall not conflict with statutes, the city code or the
Fire Chief’s rules and regulations. The volunteers shall be compensated by the
city for each fire call answered at such a rate as may be set from time to time
by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-5)
   (B)   Meetings. The Fire Department shall hold monthly meetings and at the
annual meeting, shall elect a Secretary and a Treasurer. The officers so
elected shall qualify and take office at the first meeting in January.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-6)
   (C)   Secretary’s duties. The Secretary shall keep a record of all meetings
of the Fire Department and the attendance of the members, a record of all fires
and the attendance of the members of such fires. During the last week of March
of each year, the Secretary shall file with the City Clerk a full report of
such record of attendance and fires, which report shall be made under oath. He
or she shall also keep such other records, make such reports and keep and
furnish such statistics as may be required of him or her by law.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-7)
   (D)   Treasurer’s duties. The Treasurer, before taking office, shall execute
a file with the City Clerk, a sufficient bond to the city, to be approved by
the Mayor and City Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of his or
her duties under this section. The Treasurer shall receive all monies collected
for and on behalf of the Fire Department, including the tax and license fee for
foreign fire insurance companies and shall pay the same upon the order of the
Fire Department for the purposes of maintenance, use and benefit of such
Department. Such Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Fire Department on
the condition of the funds in his or her hands and shall, on the first Tuesday
of December in each year, make a sworn report and statement to the Mayor and
City Council of all monies received and disbursed by him or her as such
Treasurer and the balance of monies in his or her hands. The books, records and
accounts of such Treasurer shall be faithfully kept and shall, at all times, be
open to inspection and an audit of the Mayor and City Council. He or she shall,
at the expiration of his or her term of office, surrender, pay and deliver to
his or her successor in office, all books, records, accounts and monies in his
or her hands as such Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-8)
   (E)   Amount received. The City Emergency Unit and Volunteer Fire Department
shall receive one-half of the amount actually collected from each Fire
Department response outside the city for which revenue may be collected and the
volunteer firefighters have assisted in responding. The City Emergency Unit and
Volunteer Fire Department shall disburse the funds received to all volunteers
of the Fire Department as the Constitution and by-laws of that organization
shall require or allow. Mutual aid responses are expressly excluded from this
section.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-9)
(Ord. 12-81, passed 10-27-1981; Ord. 17-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 34.107 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement of laws. It shall be the function and duty of the Fire
Department and every member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive
fires, to prevent the occurrence or spread of fires, to enforce all ordinances
relating to the occurrence or spread of such fires.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-11)
   (B)   Obeying orders at fire. No firefighter in attendance at a fire shall
neglect or refuse to obey the orders of the officer in command at such fires.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-12)
   (C)   Failure to follow orders. Every male person above the age of 21 years
who shall be present at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer in
command at such fire and shall render all the assistance in his or her power,
and in such manner as he or she may be directed, in the extinguishment of the
fire and in the removal of and protection of property, and any person refusing
to obey such orders shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in Chapters 30
and 31; provided, no person shall be bound to obey any such officer, unless
such officer’s official character shall be known or made known to such person.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-13)
   (D)   Duty to enforce. It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire
Department and all police officers to see that the provisions of this code are
enforced and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of
the provisions of this subchapter or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey
any such officer in the discharge of his or her duty, and to that end, all such
officers are hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police
officers.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-14)
   (E)   Illegal use of equipment. No person shall use any fire engine or any
other apparatus belonging to the municipality for any private purpose, other
than the extinguishment of fires; nor shall any person remove the same or any
part-thereof from its place of deposit or, having the control thereof, shall
permit such engine or other apparatus to be used for any private purpose other
than the extinguishment of fires.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-15)
   (F)   Fire hydrants. No person shall, in any manner, obstruct the use of any
fire hydrant, or have or place any material in front thereof, or within five
feet from either side thereof. No person shall, without lawful authority, take
water from any public fire plug or hydrant or remove the cover therefrom.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-16) (Ord. 10-81, passed - -)
   (G)   Outside service. The Fire Department shall not leave the city in
rendering service under this subchapter at any time when it is actually
responding to an alarm within the city or fighting a fire therein, and no
service shall be rendered to premises outside the city unless at the time one
complete unit of firefighting apparatus and sufficient members of the Fire
Department to operate it remain in the city. See division (O) below.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-17)
   (H)   Impersonating firefighters. No person, not a member of the Fire
Department, shall impersonate a firefighter or officer of the Fire Department
by wearing a cap or badge thereof, or in any other way.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-18)
   (I)   Crossing fire hose. No person shall ride or drive any vehicle of any
kind or description upon, across or over any fire hose or other fire apparatus
belonging to, or used by the city.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-19)
   (J)   Obstructing street. No vehicle shall be driven or parked in a street
or alley contiguous to a fire so as to obstruct or block such street or alley.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-20)
   (K)   Hindering firefighters. It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder
any officer, firefighter or member of the Fire Department in the performance of
duty while at a fire.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-21)
   (L)   Removal of property salvaged at fires. No person shall be entitled to
take away any property in the possession of the Fire Department, saved from any
fire, until proof of ownership is made to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief,
or other officer in command, and his or her consent obtained thereto.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-22)
   (M)   Access to burned buildings. Whenever the Fire Chief deems it necessary
for the public safety or in order to avoid destruction of evidence that may be
present for an investigation into the cause of a fire, he or she may restrict
or prohibit access into or near any building or structure damaged by a fire.
Any person not obeying such restriction or prohibition shall be in violation of
this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-23)
   (N)   Destruction or removal of buildings. The Mayor or the officer in
command at any fire may direct the tearing down, removal or destruction by any
proper means of any building, fence or erection when he or she shall deem it
necessary for the purpose of checking the progress of the fire.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-24)
   (O)   Outside service; White Ash.
      (1)   The city hereby authorized the City Fire Department, in accordance
with division (G) above, to respond to and service fire calls within the
Village of White Ash, Illinois, in accordance with an agreement to be executed
by the parties.
      (2)   The Mayor of the city is authorized to execute the agreement
between the city and the Village of White Ash to provide said fire protection
service to the Village of White Ash.
(1999 Code, Ch. 30, App. A)
(Ord. 16-79, passed - -; Ord. 12-92, passed 11-24-1992)
§ 34.108 NONRESIDENT FEES.
   (A)   Fees established. Any nonresident of the city who requires service
from the City Fire Department, first responders personnel and city emergency
equipment is used, while within the corporate limits of the city, shall pay the
charges in division (B) below as they apply.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-30)
   (B)   Nonresident fees. Any nonresident of the city who requires service
from the City Fire Department, first responders and city emergency equipment is
used, while outside the corporate limits of the city, shall pay the charges
below as they apply.
      (1)   All Fire Department and first responders rescue van vehicle: no
more than $125 per hour per vehicle.
      (2)   Off duty personnel: no more than $35 per hour per personnel
including overtime.
      (3)   Other personnel: regular salary, but no more than $35 per hour per
personnel.
      (4)   Volunteer Fire Department: regular compensation at their
compensation level per volunteer.
      (5)   Equipment: actual or reasonable charge subject to change due to
increase in costs.
      (6)   Supplies: actual or reasonable charge subject to change due to
increase in cost.
      (7)   Note: a minimum of one hour shall be charged for all vehicles and
personnel on each call.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-31)
   (C)   Fees on file. A current price list of charges for division (B) above
shall be maintained at the Fire Department and on file with the City Clerk and
City Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-32)
   (D)   Patient privacy. Patient Privacy Act, otherwise known as the Health
Insurance Portability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), set forth primarily in separate
sections of 42 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., shall be observed in all medical
emergencies when a patient is involved.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-33)
   (E)   Mutual aid calls. There shall be no charge on any and all mutual aid
calls.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-34)
   (F)   Hazardous materials.
      (1)   The Fire Department is authorized and directed to respond
immediately upon being notified, and to do all things within its capabilities
to contain, remove and dispose of any materials hazardous to public health and
safety that is leaked, spilled or otherwise improperly released within or
outside the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Should such response require the services of special personnel and
equipment beyond the capabilities of the Fire Department to provide, the Chief
of the Fire Department is authorized to obtain or to contract for services of
personnel or equipment sufficient to contain, remove and dispose of such
hazardous materials.
      (3)   The cost incurred for the use of such special personnel and
equipment, in addition to the cost of the use of the city personnel and
equipment, shall be charged to the person, firm or organization, jointly and
severally, in possession of, in the process of transporting or otherwise
responsible for the containment of any hazardous materials spilled, leaked or
otherwise improperly released.
      (4)   The amount of the costs incurred by the city from the use of
special personnel and equipment is the amount to be charged the person, firm or
organization designated in division (F)(3) above. In addition, such person,
firm or organization shall be charged for the use of city personnel, equipment
and materials as follows with a minimum of one hour to be charged for all
vehicles and personnel used at the scene.
         (a)   All Fire Department and first responders rescue van vehicle: all
as stated in division (B) above.
         (b)   Off-duty personnel call back: all as stated in division (B)
above.
         (c)   Other personnel: all as stated in division (B) above.
         (d)   Volunteer Fire Department personnel: all as stated in division
(B) above.
         (e)   Materials used: actual cost.
         (f)   Other equipment: actual or reasonable cost.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-35)
   (G)   Billing and collection procedure. All revenue from charges assessed
pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the General Fund of the city.
      (1)   The Fire Chief, if at the scene, shall be responsible for the
collection of all information required and a list of the supplies used. If the
Fire Chief is unavailable, the firefighter/first responder, in charge of that
scene, shall assume this responsibility and supply such information as listed
above to the Fire Chief in a timely manner.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall then check all charges and information and
submit such to City Clerk within five days of the fire/accident. This
information shall contain:
         (a)   Name, address and phone number of the owner of home/vehicle;
         (b)   Name, address and phone number of the driver, firm or
organization;
         (c)   Name, address and phone number of the insurance company;
         (d)   Information must show if fire/accident/medical emergency was
within or outside the corporate city;
         (e)   All charges for fire vehicles, equipment, supplies used and the
number of personnel and the amount of pay for each personnel and volunteers;
and
         (f)   A minimum charge of one hour shall be charged for all vehicles
and personnel.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall then issue a bill of all charges to the
responsible party in the manner below.
         (a)   The first notice will state they have 30 days to pay.
         (b)   After 30 days and no restitution has been made, a past due
notice shall be mailed and must be paid within 30 days of date of past due
notice.
         (c)   If the bill is not paid after the past due notice, a delinquent
notice shall be mailed stating: “if this bill is hot paid within 30 days of the
date of bill, this will be turned over to the City Attorney for collection.”
         (d)   If payment is not made, the City Attorney shall then send notice
of collection which shall state they have ten days of the date of notice to pay
all charges. See division (G)(5) below.
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall be informed of notices and inform City
Clerk when payment is received and keep all records of payments and be
deposited in the General Fund as stipulated in 65 ILCS 5/11-5-7.2 and 11-6.1-1
(Public Act 093-0304, § 2-d).
      (5)   The Mayor with the Chairperson of the Finance and Safety Committee
shall have the sole authority to adjust or waive charges before the bill is
turned over to the City Attorney as stipulated in division (G)(3)(d) above.
      (6)   All records shall be accurate and up-to-date by the City Clerk,
Treasurer and Fire Chief.
(1999 Code, § 30-5-36) (Ord. 07-04, passed 4-27-2004)
PUBLIC SAFETY DIRECTOR
§ 34.120 CREATION OF POSITION.
   There is hereby created the position of Public Safety Director. The Public
Safety Director shall be the head of the Police Department and Fire Department.
Subject to the direction of the Mayor, the Public Safety Director shall
supervise and administer all officers, members and employees, including, but
not limited to, public safety officers, assigned to the Police Department and
Fire Department through the Assistant Public Safety Director/Police Chief and
the Assistant Public Safety Director/Fire Chief. The Assistant Public Safety
Director/Police Chief and the Assistant Public Safety Director/Fire Chief shall
supervise and be responsible for the day-to-day operations and activities of
those officers, members and employees assigned to them, and they shall report
to the Public Safety Director. In all respects, the Assistant Public Safety
Director/Police Chief and the Assistant Public Safety Director/Fire Chief shall
retain all traditional authority and control over the operations of the Police
Department and Fire Department.
(1999 Code, § 30-6-1)
§ 34.121 APPOINTMENT.
   The Public Safety Director shall be appointed and/or removed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. If the Public Safety Director
is appointed from one of the police or fire ranks, he or she shall be an exempt
rank and he or she shall retain his or her permanent civil service rank in
effect at the time of his or her appointment. All other appointments not
otherwise provided for by this code shall be made by the Merit Board as
provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 30-6-2) (Ord. 09-09, passed 8-11-2009)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating this chapter or any order thereunder shall
be punished by a fine of not exceeding $750.
(20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.) (1999 Code, § 30-4-23)
APPENDIX A: MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM AGREEMENT
MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM
AGREEMENT
   This Agreement made and entered into the date set forth next to the
signature of the respective parties, by and between the units of local
government subscribed hereto (hereafter “Unit(s)”) that have approved this
Agreement and adopted same in manner as provided by law and are hereafter
listed at the end of this Agreement.
   WHEREAS, the Constitution of the State of Illinois, 1970, Article VII,
Section 10, authorizes units of local government to contract or otherwise
associate among themselves in any manner not prohibited by law or ordinance;
and,
   WHEREAS, the “Intergovernmental Cooperation Act”, 5 ILCS 220/1 et seq.,
provides that any power or powers, privileges or authority exercised or which
may be exercised by a unit of local government may be exercised and enjoyed
jointly with any other unit of local government; and,
   WHEREAS, Section 5 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 5 ILCS 220/5,
provides that any one or more public agencies may contract with any one or more
public agencies to perform any governmental service, activity or undertaking
which any of the public agencies entering into the contract is authorized by
law to perform, provided that such contract shall be authorized by the
governing body of each party to the contract; and,
   WHEREAS, the parties hereto have determined that it is in their best
interests to enter into this Agreement to secure to each the benefits of mutual
aid in fire protection, firefighting and the protection of life and property
from an emergency or disaster; and,
   WHEREAS, the parties hereto have determine that it is in their best
interests to form an association to provide for communications procedures,
training and other necessary functions to further the provision of said
protection of life and property from an emergency or disaster.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, the Unit’s
membership in the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System and the covenants contained
herein, THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION ONE - Purpose
   It is recognized and acknowledged that in certain situations, such as, but
not limited to, emergencies, natural disasters and man-made catastrophes, the
use of an individual Member Unit’s personnel and equipment to perform functions
outside the territorial limits of the Member Unit is desirable and necessary to
preserve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public. It is
further expressly acknowledged that in certain situations, such as the
aforementioned, the use of other Member Unit’s personnel and equipment to
perform functions within the territorial limits of a Member Unit is desirable
and necessary to preserve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public. Further, it is acknowledged that coordination of mutual aid through the
Mutual Aid Box Alarm System is desirable for the effective and efficient
provision of mutual aid.
SECTION TWO - Definitions
   For the purpose of this Agreement, the following terms as used in this
agreement shall be defined as follows:
   A.   “Mutual Aid Box Alarm System” (hereinafter referred to as “MABAS”). A
definite and prearranged plan whereby response and assistance is provided to a
Stricken Unit by the Aiding Unit(s) in accordance with the system established
and maintained by the MABAS Member Units and amended from time to time.
   B.   “Member Unit”. A unit of local government including but not limited to
a city, village or fire protection district having a fire department recognized
by the State of Illinois, or an intergovernmental agency and the units of which
the intergovernmental agency is comprised which is a party to the MABAS
Agreement and has been appropriately authorized by the governing body to enter
into such agreement, and to comply with the rules and regulations of MABAS.
   C.   “Stricken Unit”. A Member Unit which requests aid in the event of an
emergency.
   D.   “Aiding Unit”. A Member Unit furnishing equipment, personnel, and/or
services to a Stricken Unit.
   E.   “Emergency”. An occurrence or condition in a Member Unit’s territorial
jurisdiction which results in a situation of such magnitude and/or consequence
that it cannot be adequately handled by the Stricken Unit and such that a
Member Unit determines the necessity and advisability of requesting aid.
   F.   “Division”. The geographically associated Member Units or unit which
have been grouped for operational efficiency and representation of those Member
Units.
   G.   “Training”. The regular scheduled practice of emergency procedures
during non-emergency drills to implement the necessary joint operations of
MABAS.
   H.   “Executive Board”. The governing body of MABAS comprised of Division
representatives.
SECTION THREE - Authority and Action to Effect Mutual Aid
   A.   The Member Units hereby authorize and direct their respective Fire
Chief or his designee to take necessary and proper action to render and/or
request mutual aid from the other Member Units in accordance with the policies
and procedures established and maintained by the MABAS Member Units. The aid
rendered shall be to the extent of available personnel and equipment not
required for adequate protection of the territorial limits of the Aiding Unit.
The judgment of the Fire Chief, or his designee, of the Aiding Unit shall be
final as to the personnel and equipment available to render aid.
   B.   Whenever an emergency occurs and conditions are such that the Fire
Chief, or his designee, of the Stricken Unit determines it advisable to request
aid pursuant to this Agreement he shall notify the Aiding Unit of the nature
and location of the emergency and the type and amount of equipment and
personnel and/or services requested from the Aiding Unit.
   C.   The Fire Chief, or his designee, of the Aiding Unit shall take the
following action immediately upon being requested for aid:
      1.   Determine what equipment, personnel and/or services is requested
according to the system maintained by MABAS;
      2.   Determine if the requested equipment, personnel, and/or services can
be committed in response to the request from the Stricken Unit;
      3.   Dispatch immediately the requested equipment, personnel and/or
services, to the extent available, to the location of the emergency reported by
the Stricken Unit in accordance with the procedures of MABAS;
      4.   Notify the Stricken Unit if any or all of the requested equipment,
personnel and/or services cannot be provided.
SECTION FOUR - Jurisdiction Over Personnel and Equipment
   Personnel dispatched to aid a party pursuant to this Agreement shall remain
employees of the Aiding Unit. Personnel rendering aid shall report for
direction and assignment at the scene of the emergency to the Fire Chief or
Senior Officer of the Stricken Unit. The party rendering aid shall at all times
have the right to withdraw any and all aid upon the order of its Fire Chief or
his designee; provided, however, that the party withdrawing such aid shall
notify the Fire Chief or Senior Officer of the party requesting aid of the
withdrawal of such aid and the extent of such withdrawal.
SECTION FIVE - Compensation for Aid
   Equipment, personnel, and/or services provided pursuant to this Agreement
shall be at no charge to the party requesting aid for the first eight
consecutive hours of aid provided to the Stricken Unit; however, any expenses
recoverable from third parties shall be equitably distributed among responding
parties. Day-to-day mutual aid should remain free of charge and the
administrative requirements of reimbursement make it unfeasible to charge for
dat-to-day mutual aid. Nothing herein shall operate to bar any recovery of
funds from any state or federal agency under any existing statutes.
   Any Aiding Unit is empowered to and may charge a Stricken Unit for
reimbursement for costs of equipment, personnel, and/or services provided under
this Agreement for terms of more than eight consecutive hours under the
following terms and conditions:
      1.   The amount of charges assessed by an Aiding Unit to a Stricken Unit
may not exceed the amount necessary to make the Aiding Unit whole and should
only include costs that are non-routine in nature.
      2.   The Aiding Unit must assess no more the “usual and customary”
charges for personnel costs pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement,
benefit ordinance or compensation policy.
      3.   The fee structure for apparatus and equipment shall be based on FEMA
or OSFM rate schedules. If a particular piece of apparatus or equipment is not
listed within the FEMA or OSFM rate schedules, a market rate for reimbursement
shall be established.
      4.   In no event shall the amount assessed by an Aiding Unit to a
Stricken Unit exceed the amount of fees permitted to be assessed under Illinois
law.
      5.   Aiding Units must invoice the Stricken Unit within 30 days after the
completion of the emergency. Once 30 days pass, the aid shall be considered to
be a donation service.
      6.   Mutual Aid in assessing the costs for mutual aid cannot in any way
be conditioned upon any declaration of a federal disaster.
   Member Units are encouraged to consider the adoption of internal policies
establishing procedures for cost reimbursement on MABAS mobilizations pursuant
to established MABAS procedures for collection and submission of funds.
SECTION SIX - Insurance
   Each party hereto shall procure and maintain, at its sole and exclusive
expense, insurance coverage, including: comprehensive liability, personal
injury, property damage, worker’s compensation, and, if applicable, emergency
medical service professional liability, with minimum limits of $1,000,000 auto
and $1,000,000 combined single limit general liability and professional
liability. No party hereto shall have any obligation to provide or extend
insurance coverage for any of the items enumerated herein to any other party
hereto or its personnel. The obligations of the Section may be satisfied by a
party’s membership in a self-insurance pool, a self-insurance plan or
arrangement with an insurance provider approved by the state of jurisdiction.
The MABAS may require that copies or other evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this Section be provided to the MABAS. Upon request, Member Units
shall provide such evidence as herein provided to the MABAS members.
SECTION SEVEN - Indemnification
   Each party hereto agrees to waive all claims against all other parties
hereto for any loss, damage, personal injury or death occurring in consequence
of the performance of this Mutual Aid Agreement; provided, however, that such
claim is not a result of gross negligence or willful misconduct by a party
hereto or its personnel.
   Each party requesting or providing aid pursuant to this Agreement hereby
expressly agrees to hold harmless, indemnify and defend the party rendering aid
and its personnel from any and all claims, demands, liability, losses, suits in
law or in equity which are made by a third party. This indemnity shall include
attorney fees and costs that may arise from providing aid pursuant to this
Agreement. Provided, however, that all employee benefits, wage and disability
payments, pensions, worker’s compensation claims, damage to or destruction of
equipment and clothing, and medical expenses of the party rendering aid shall
be the sole and exclusive responsibility of the respective party for its
employees, provided, however, that such claims made by a third party are not
the result of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the party
rendering aid.
SECTION EIGHT - Non-Liability for Failure to Render Aid
   The rendering of assistance under the terms of this Agreement shall not be
mandatory if local conditions of the Aiding Unit prohibit response. It is the
responsibility of the Aiding Unit to immediately notify the Stricken Unit of
the Aiding Unit’s inability to respond; however, failure to immediately notify
the Stricken Unit of such inability to respond shall not constitute evidence of
noncompliance with the terms of this Section and no liability may be assigned.
   No liability of any kind or nature shall be attributed to or be assumed,
whether expressly or implied, by a party hereto, its duly authorized agents and
personnel, for failure or refusal to render aid. Nor shall there by any
liability of a party for withdrawal of aid once provided pursuant to the terms
of this Agreement.
SECTION NINE - Term
   This Agreement shall be in effect for a term of one year from the date of
signature hereof and shall automatically renew for successive one year terms
unless terminated in accordance with this Section.
   Any party hereto may terminate its participation in this Agreement at any
time, provided that the party wishing to terminate its participation in this
Agreement shall give written notice to the Board of their Division and to the
Executive Board specifying the date of termination, such notice to be given at
least 90 calendar days prior to the specified date of termination of
participation. The written notice provided herein shall be given by personal
delivery, registered mail or certified mail.
SECTION TEN - Effectiveness
   This Agreement shall be in full force and effective upon approval by the
parties hereto in the manner provided by law and upon proper execution hereof.
SECTION ELEVEN - Binding Effect
   This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any
successor entity which may assume the obligations of any party hereto.
Provided, however, that this Agreement may not be assigned by a Member Unit
without prior written consent of the parties hereto; and this Agreement shall
not be assigned by MABAS without prior written consent of the parties hereto.
SECTION TWELVE - Validity
   The invalidity of any provision of this Agreement shall not render invalid
any other provision. If, for any reason, any provision of this Agreement is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,
that provision shall be deemed severable and this Agreement may be enforced
with that provision severed or modified by court order.
SECTION THIRTEEN - Notices
   All notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be served personally, by
registered mail or certified mail to the parties at such addresses as may be
designated from time to time on the MABAS mailing lists or, to other such
addresses as shall be agreed upon.
SECTION FOURTEEN - Governing Law
   This Agreement shall be governed, interpreted and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Illinois.
SECTION FIFTEEN - Execution in Counterparts
   This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts or duplicate
originals, each of which shall constitute and be deemed as one and the same
document.
SECTION SIXTEEN - Executive Board of MABAS
   An Executive Board is hereby established to consider, adopt and amend from
time to time as needed rules, procedures, by-laws and any other matters deemed
necessary by the Member Units. The Executive Board shall consist of a member
elected from each Division within MABAS who shall serve as the voting
representative of said Division on MABAS matters, and may appoint a designee to
serve temporarily in his stead, such designee shall be from within the
respective division and shall have all rights and privileges attendant to a
representative of that Member Unit.
   A President and Vice President shall be elected from the representatives of
the Member Units and shall serve without compensation. The President and such
other officers as are provided for in the by-laws shall coordinate the
activities of the MABAS.
SECTION SEVENTEEN - Duties of the Executive Board
   The Executive Board shall meet regularly to conduct business and to consider
and publish the rules, procedures and by-laws of the MABAS, which shall govern
the Executive Board meetings and such other relevant matters as the Executive
Board shall deem necessary.
SECTION EIGHTEEN - Rules and Procedures
   Rules, procedures and by-laws of the MABAS shall be established by the
Member Units via the Executive Board as deemed necessary from time to time for
the purpose of administrative functions, the exchange of information and the
common welfare of the MABAS.
SECTION NINETEEN - Amendments
   This Agreement may only be amended by written consent of all the parties
hereto. This shall not preclude the amendment of rules, procedures and by-laws
of the MABAS as established by the Executive Board to this Agreement. The
undersigned unit of local government or public agency hereby has adopted, and
subscribes to, and approves this Mutual Aid Box Alarm System Agreement to which
this signature page will be attached, and agrees to be a party thereto and be
bound by the terms thereof.
(1999 Code, Ch. 30, App. B) (Ord. 17-04, passed 6-22-2004; Ord. 01-15, passed
3-24-2015)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Generally
   
35.001   Corporate rate
   
35.002   Police tax
   
35.003   Audit tax
   
35.004   Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax
   
35.005   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
35.006   General liability
   
35.007   Maximum rates established
   
35.008   Water Capital Improvement Reserve Fund
Simplified Telecommunication Tax
   
35.020   Telecommunications tax recitals
   
35.021   Definitions
   
35.022   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
35.023   Collection of tax by retailers
   
35.024   Returns to Department
   
35.025   Resellers
Municipal Utility Tax
   
35.040   Utility tax imposed
   
35.041   Exceptions
   
35.042   Extent of tax
   
35.043   Definitions
   
35.044   Effective date
   
35.045   Quarterly returns
   
35.046   Incorrect tax paid
   
35.047   Time limit for recovery
Electric Utility Tax
   
35.060   Definitions
   
35.061   Tax imposed
   
35.062   Collection of tax
   
35.063   Tax remittance and return
   
35.064   Books and records
   
35.065   Credit and refunds
Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
35.080   Conformance
   
35.081   Fees
   
35.082   Required reports
   
35.083   Recovery of monies
   
35.084   Unlawful operation
Taxpayers’ Rights Code
   
35.095   Title and scope
   
35.096   Definitions
   
35.097   Notices
   
35.098   Late payment
   
35.099   Payment
   
35.100   Certain credits and refunds
   
35.101   Audit procedure
   
35.102   Appeal
   
35.103   Hearing
   
35.104   Interest and penalties
   
35.105   Abatement
   
35.106   Installment contracts
   
35.107   Statute of limitations
   
35.108   Voluntary disclosure
   
35.109   Publication of tax ordinance
   
35.110   Internal review procedure
   
35.111   Application
Motor Fuel Tax
   
35.125   Definitions
   
35.126   Tax imposed
   
35.127   Collection of tax
   
35.128   Registration and maintenance of records
   
35.129   Enforcement
   
35.130   Revenue
   
35.131   First report
   
35.132   Effective date
   
35.133   Monthly motor fuel tax return form
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
35.145   Tax
   
35.146   Collection and enforcement
   
35.147   Limitation
   
35.148   Filing
   
35.149   Effective
Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
35.160   Tax
   
35.161   Collection and enforcement
   
35.162   Limitation
   
35.163   Filing
   
35.164   Effective
Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
35.175   Occupation tax imposed
   
35.176   Service occupation tax imposed
   
35.177   Administration
   
35.178   Filing
   
35.179   Effective
 
   
35.999   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Alcoholic beverage provisions, see
Chapter 111
   Business Code, see
Chapter 110
   General administration provisions, see
Chapter 30
GENERALLY
§ 35.001 CORPORATE RATE.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the city be and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.25%.
(65 ILCS 5/8-3-1) (1999 Code, § 36-1-1)
§ 35.002 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the city be and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(65 ILCS 5/11-1-3) (1999 Code, § 36-1-2)
§ 35.003 AUDIT TAX.
   The City Council may levy a municipal auditing tax upon all taxable property
in the city which will produce an amount which will equal the cost of all
auditing for the city.
(65 ILCS 5/8-8-8) (1999 Code, § 36-1-3)
§ 35.004 FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS ACT TAX.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the federal Social Security
System.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security Enabling Act, see 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
§ 35.005 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, see 40 ILCS 5/7-132 et seq.
§ 35.006 GENERAL LIABILITY.
   The City Council may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the city at
whatever rate is necessary to purchase general liability insurance for the
city.
(1999 Code, § 36-1-6)
§ 35.007 MAXIMUM RATES ESTABLISHED.
   The maximum tax rates for the various purposes of the city of the full,
fair, cash value as equalized or assessed by the Department of Revenue on all
the taxable property within the city shall be as follows:
 
Fund/Purpose                          Maximum Rate
City park                             $0.20 per $100
Emergency Service and Disaster Agency $0.05 per $100
Fire protection                       $0.075 per $100
Library                               $0.15 per $100
 
(1999 Code, § 36-1-7)
§ 35.008 WATER CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   The City of Johnston City hereby establishes a Water Capital
Improvement Reserve Fund. The monies in the Capital Improvement Fund shall be
used solely for capital expenditures.
   (B)   The Water Capital Improvement Reserve Fund shall be funded by a $2
charge on each water bill and shall be transferred from the Water Dept. O and M
Fund into the Capital Improvement Reserve Fund.
   (C)   The Water Capital Improvement Reserve Fund shall be reserved until
such funds are budgeted and required for capital expenditures.
(Ord. 09-21A, passed 8-2-2021)
SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATION TAX
§ 35.020 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX RECITALS.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et
seq., the Illinois Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, Public Act
92-526 (the “Act”).
(1999 Code, § 36-2-1)
§ 35.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-
office channel provided within the state; however, GROSS CHARGE shall not
include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
         (a)   The tax imposed by this section;
         (b)   The tax imposed by 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq., the Telecommunications
Excise Tax Act;
         (c)   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   911 surcharges; or
         (e)   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of
220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 9-222, the Public Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar
charges added to customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate
regulation by the State Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering any
of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the
Public Utilities Act.
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified under 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1,
the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period
of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices; or
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under 35 ILCS 635/1 et
seq., Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, country or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail as defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to insure collection and payment
of the tax. Such RETAILER shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Or any like term,
means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use as defined
in 35 ILCS 638/1 et seq., the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity
Act. For air-to-ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the
location of a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as
defined by telephone number, authorization code or location in the state where
bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, private
line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer
exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized
mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of
mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. As used in this subchapter, “private line”
means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer, that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel
or group of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunication service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered “telecommunications”
subject to the tax imposed under this Act. For purposes of this section,
“prepaid telephone calling arrangements” means that term as defined in 35 ILCS
120/2-27, the Retailer’s Occupations Tax Act.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-2)
§ 35.022 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax imposed upon any and all of the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 5% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer;
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 5% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or privilege that is subject to
taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has
paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against
any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the
amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state which was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this
state; and
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the city.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 35.023 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this subchapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-4)
§ 35.024 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this subchapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-526, § 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to implement this
Act.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-5)
§ 35.025 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this subchapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided herein above in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(1999 Code, § 36-2-6)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 35.040 UTILITY TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the city and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-1)
   (B)   Notwithstanding any language to the contrary in this chapter, no tax
pursuant to this section shall be levied on any gas sales to the city on any of
the city’s utility accounts.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 35.041 EXCEPTIONS.
   No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the Constitution and Statutes of the United States, be made the subject
to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter for
such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions
of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1,
of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 35.042 EXTENT OF TAX.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products
or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-3)
§ 35.043 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, or water for use or consumption and not for resale,
as the case may be, except for that consideration received from the city; and
for all service rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property
of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, and shall
be determined without any deduction on account of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-4)
§ 35.044 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect after publication and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-5)
§ 35.045 QUARTERLY RETURNS.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the City Treasurer for preceding months stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax;
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require; and
      (6)   In the event the amount of tax to be forwarded by the taxpayer to
the City Treasurer is less than $10, the taxpayer may forego filing the monthly
return and forward the tax return and tax due the city on a quarterly or
semiannual basis.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding month.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay the City Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-6) (Ord. 8-98, passed 10-13-1998)
§ 35.046 INCORRECT TAX PAID.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-7)
§ 35.047 TIME LIMIT FOR RECOVERY.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(1999 Code, § 36-3-8)
ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
§ 35.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Johnston City, Illinois.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation, the state university created by statutes, or a receiver, trust,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of the court.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purpose of use or consumption and not for resale, but shall not include the use
of electricity by a public utility, as defined in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the
Illinois Municipal Code, directly in the generation, production, transmission,
delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER. Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the city electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-1)
§ 35.061 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 5/8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
2), and any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the
privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city at the following
rates calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      (1)   First 2,000 KWH: 0.395 cents per KWH;
      (2)   Next 48,000 KWH 0.259 cents per KWH;
      (3)   Next 50,000 KWH: 0.233 cents per KWH;
      (4)   Next 400,000 KWH: 0.227 cents per KWH
      (5)   Next 500,000 KWH: 0.220 cents per KWH;
      (6)   Next 2,000,000 KWH: 0.207 cents per KWH;
      (7)   Next 2,000,000 KWH: 0.204 cents per KWH;
      (8)   Next 5,000,000 KWH: 0.201 cents per KWH;
      (9)   Next 10,000,000 KWH: 0.198 cents per KWH; and
      (10)   Over 20,000,000 KWH: 0.194 cents per KWH.
   (B)   The tax is addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the city, the state or any other political subdivision of the state.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not
be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the Constitution or statutes of the United States or the Constitution
of the state.
   (D)   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill on or after
October 1, 1998; and with respect to the use or consumption of electricity by
nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to such customers
for delivery services in accordance with § 16-104 of the Public Utilities Act
(220 ILCS 5/16-104), or the first bill issued to such customers on or after
January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner. However, nothwithstanding
any language to the contrary in this chapter, no tax pursuant to this chapter
shall be levied on any electrical use or consumption by the city on any of the
city’s utility accounts.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-2) (Ord. 6-98, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 08-15, passed 10-13-
2015)
§ 35.062 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser.
   (B)   Any tax required to be collected by this chapter, and any tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the city by the person delivering
the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
   (C)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax they collect to reimburse
them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the city
upon request. For purposes of this chapter, any partial payment of a billed
amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for
the delivery of electricity.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-3)
§ 35.063 TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN.
   (A)   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by city. The return and accompanying remittance shall be due on or
before the last day of the month following the month during which the tax is
collected or is required to be collected under §
35.062. The return shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and principal place of business;
      (2)   Gross receipts and kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon the
basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (3)   Amount of tax; and
      (4)   Other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax, then the purchaser shall file
a return in a form prescribed by city and pay the tax directly to the city on
or before the last day of the month following the month during which the
electricity is used or consumed.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-4)
§ 35.064 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by
this subchapter, shall keep accurate books and records of its business or
activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this
subchapter. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-5)
§ 35.065 CREDIT AND REFUNDS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision, no person shall be entitled to a refund
of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this subchapter unless the person files
a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the tax
was paid or remitted. Any such refund shall be credited against any tax due, or
to become due, under this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-6)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 35.080 CONFORMANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association, not incorporated
under the laws of the state to engage in the city in effecting fire insurance
or to transact any business of fire insurance in this city, while in default by
not fully complying with any of the requirements of this section, and until
such requirements shall have been fully complied with; but this provision shall
not relieve any company, corporation or association from the payment of any
risk that may be undertaken in violation of this section.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-1) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.081 FEES.
   Any such corporation, company or association not incorporated under the laws
of the state, which is engaged in the city in effecting fire insurance, shall
pay the City Treasurer for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire
Department of the city, a sum of money equal in amount to 2% per annum of the
gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any and all
agents of such corporation, company, association during the year ending on July
1 in each year, for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected on property
located in the city by or with such corporation, company or association during
such year.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-2)
§ 35.082 REQUIRED REPORTS.
   Every person acting in the city as agent for or on behalf of any such
corporation, company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each and
every year, render the City Clerk a full, true and just account verified by
oath of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which, during the year ending
July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him or her, or by
some other person for him or her, in his or her behalf of any such corporation,
company or association on property located in the city. Such agent shall also,
at the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the City Treasurer the
sum of money for which company, corporation or association represented by him
or her is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions of this section.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-3)
§ 35.083 RECOVERY OF MONIES.
   The sum of money for which such company, corporation or association is so
chargeable may be recovered of it, or its agents or agent, by an action in the
name of and for the use of the city as for money had and received. Nothing in
this section shall be held to exempt any person, corporation, company,
association from indictment and conviction under the provisions of an act
entitled “An Act to Enable Cities, Towns, and Villages, Organized under Any
General or Special Law, to Levy and Collect a Tax or License Fee from Foreign
Insurance Companies for the Benefit of Organized Fire Department”. in force
July 1, 1895.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-4)
§ 35.084 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   No insurance agent in the city shall have any insurance business or dealings
with any company, association, or corporation not incorporated under the laws
of this state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making payments
as hereinbefore provided, until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this section.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-5) Penalty, see §
35.999
TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS CODE
§ 35.095 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Taxpayers’ Bill
of Rights”. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s
procedures in connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-1)
§ 35.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers Bill of Rights.
   CITY. The City of Johnston City, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The City’s Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Treasurer, who is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
code to give full effect to this code. The exercise of such authority by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this code.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city, and not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under 35
ILCS 200/1-1 et seq., the Property Tax Code, or fees collected by the city,
other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-2)
§ 35.097 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-3)
§ 35.098 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-4)
§ 35.099 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-5)
§ 35.100 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction; however, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be a
maximum of four years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-6)
§ 35.101 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this code.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time period provided, the
local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on
the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s
tax overpayment.
   (E)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (F)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-7)
§ 35.102 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (2)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (3)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-8)
§ 35.103 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
35.102, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-9)
§ 35.104 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax to be 12% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 20% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or penalty shall
not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-10)
§ 35.105 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-11)
§ 35.106 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 business days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14 business days, or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-12)
§ 35.107 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing.
   (B)   The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations
shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return
for the applicable period was due or the end of the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a taxpayer files a
fraudulent tax return.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-13)
§ 35.108 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed; however, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator; however, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-14)
§ 35.109 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-15)
§ 35.110 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
   (B)   Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is
valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-16)
§ 35.111 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this ordinance shall be
controlling.
(1999 Code, § 36-6-17)
MOTOR FUEL TAX
§ 35.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK USER. Any person who purchases motor fuel for storage in bulk storage
facilities located within the city, which facilities are owned, leased or
controlled by that person, for subsequent dispensing into the supply tanks of
internal combustion engines operated by or for that person.
   GASOHOL. A fuel used chiefly in internal combustion engines which is
comprised chiefly of gasoline and ethyl alcohol in variable quantities.
   GASOLINE or DIESEL FUEL. A volatile, highly flammable or combustible liquid
mixture of hydrocarbons produced by the fractional distillation of petroleum
and used chiefly as a fuel in internal combustion engines, but shall not
include mixtures commonly known as kerosene and aviation fuel, or mixtures used
in the heating of buildings.
   MOTOR FUEL. “Gasohol” and “gasoline” and “diesel fuel” as defined in this
section.
   PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation,
business, trust, institution, agency, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other
representative, acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties.
   RETAIL GASOLINE DEALER. Any person who engages in the business of selling
motor fuel in the city to a purchaser for the use of consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SALE, RESALE, BARTER, SELLING. Any transfer of ownership or possession, or
both, exchange or conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for valuable consideration.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.126 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed and levied a tax upon the retail purchase
within the city of motor fuel, at the rate of $0.02 per gallon or fraction
thereof.
   (B)   This tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   (C)   The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of such tax shall be
upon the retail purchaser of motor fuel.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation
of selling motor fuel.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.127 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Each motor fuel retailer in the city shall have the duty to collect
the motor fuel tax from each purchaser and to pay it over to the city along
with an accounting therefor, on return forms provided by the city.
      (1)   The return and tax payment shall be filed with the City Clerk on
the same filing dates as are established for filing with the State Department
of Revenue of the retailers’ occupations tax return form RR-1-A.
      (2)   A retail gasoline dealer may make tax free sales, only when the
sale is made to the federal government, the state, any municipality or unit of
local government as those terms are defined by § 1 of Article VII of the
Constitution of the state, or any school district.
   (B)   Every bulk user shall transmit to the City Clerk on or before the last
day of each calendar month a sum of money equal to the amount of motor fuel tax
owing for the preceding calendar month, accompanied by a report upon forms
supplied by the city, which indicates the gross gallons of motor fuel purchased
for the preceding calendar month and such other information as the City Clerk
may require for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   All reports and returns submitted by any person or dealer in
compliance with this subchapter shall be kept confidential, provided that
aggregate totals of motor fuel sold and tax received for the entire city may be
periodically released.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.128 REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Each motor fuel retailer shall register with the city on forms
provided by the City Clerk. Each motor fuel retailer shall have the duty to
maintain complete and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross
receipts for the sale of motor fuel and the taxes collected from the purchaser
thereof, which shall be available in the city for examination and for audit by
the city upon reasonable notice during customary business hours.
   (B)   Every bulk user shall keep complete and accurate records of purchases
of motor fuel, including the dates of purchases, the gross gallons purchased on
each of the dates and the names and addresses of the gasoline dealers from
which each of the purchases was made.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.129 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of administering and enforcing this subchapter, the
City Clerk or the Clerk’s designate shall have the right to inspect all books,
records and reports of retail gasoline dealers and bulk users during their
normal business hours.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, a penalty of 1% per
month on the amount of tax which remains unpaid shall be added and collected.
In addition, a late payment fee of 5% of the amount due that month shall be
added. Whenever any person shall fail to pay the taxes provided herein, an
action to enforce payment may be brought on behalf of the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce this subchapter and collect any delinquent
tax, interest and penalties.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.130 REVENUE.
   The revenue generated from the motor fuel tax hereby imposed shall be
expended solely for improvement of city streets and other improvements,
including storm water drainage, directly related thereto, and sidewalks,
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.131 FIRST REPORT.
   The first motor fuel tax return report will due November 20, 2011, for
October, 2011, tax liability.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.132 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect September 12, 2011.
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
§ 35.133 MONTHLY MOTOR FUEL TAX RETURN FORM.
               CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
            MONTHLY MOTOR FUEL TAX RETURN
               Effective __________________
Month/Year                        Due Date:
of Collection: ___________________________         The 20th day of the
following Month
Payee Name (Corporate/Company):               Local Business Name (DBA):
_________________________________            ________________________________
Mailing Address:                     Business Location Address:
_________________________________            _________________________________
_________________________________            _________________________________
_________________________________            _________________________________
_________________________________
Phone: ___________________               Phone: ___________________
Illinois Business Tax (IBT) Number for
Local Business Location (from Form ST-1 and CMFT-1l/CMFT-2):
_______________________
            COMPUTATION OF TAX LIABILITY
1.   Gallons of Motor Fuel Sold                        ______________________
2.   Johnston City Motor Fuel Tax (line 1 X $0.02)            $_______________
3.   Interest and Penalties (if paid after the due date):
         ______________________
      Interest Charges 1.0% per month Late Filing Penalty
      5% of the amount of tax due Late Payment Charges
      5% of the amount of tax due                     $________________
4.   Total Tax, Interest and Penalties Due (Add Lines 2 and
3)   $________________
Under penalties of perjury and other penalties provided by law, I declare that
I have examined this return and to the best of my knowledge and belief it is
true, correct and complete. I further declare that the information set forth is
taken from the books and records of the business for which this return is filed
_____________________________________      ______________________________
Signature of Preparer         Date         Signature of Taxpayer      Date
Please mail this completed return, a check in the amount shown on line 4, and a
copy of:
Illinois Department of Revenue Form ST-1 (Sales and Use Tax Return).
County Motor Fuel Tax Form CMFT-l/CMFT-2
City of Johnston City
100 West Broadway Blvd.
Johnston City, IL 62951            Phone:   618-983-6651
Attn: City Clerk, Motor Fuel Tax         Fax: 618-983-3325
(Ord. 12-11, passed 7-31-2011)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.145 TAX.
   (A)   The City Council shall and does hereby impose a tax upon all persons
engaged in the city in the business of making sales of service by the selling
price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman in the
form of tangible personal property as an incident to a sale of service. This
tax shall only be imposed by the rate of 1-1/2% of the selling price, as
authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5, the Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
Act, which is at the same rate as the city imposes a home rule municipal
retailers’ occupation tax under 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, the Home Rule Municipal
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act.
   (B)   Under the Act this additional tax may not be imposed on the sales of
food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and non prescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
(Ord. 20-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.146 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The tax imposed by the city under and pursuant to this subchapter and the
Act and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident of the tax
shall be collected and enforced by the State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 20-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.147 LIMITATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the city to
impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which under the
Constitution of the United States may not be made the subject of taxation by
the state. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this subchapter
shall be given effect in such a manner as to comply with the Home Rule
Municipal Service Occupation Tax Act, as it shall from time to time be amended.
(Ord. 20-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.148 FILING.
   Upon becoming effective, the City Clerk is directed to file a duly certified
copy of this subchapter with the State Department of Revenue, as required by
the Act, on or before October 1, 2011.
(Ord. 20-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.149 EFFECTIVE.
   Pursuant to the city’s home rule authority and § 5/8-11-5, this subchapter
shall become effective immediately upon its adoption and approval, and the tax
as established in §
35.145 shall be given effect in the time and manner as, provided in the Act.
(Ord. 20-11, passed 8-23-2011)
MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.160 TAX.
   (A)   The City Council shall and does hereby impose a tax upon all persons
engaged in the city in the business of making sales of tangible personal
property, other than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered
with an agency of this state’s government, at retail in the city on the gross
receipts from those sales made in the course of such business. This tax shall
only be imposed by the rate of one and one-half percent of the gross receipts
of the business, as authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, the Home Rule Municipal
Retailers’ Tax Act, which is at the same rate as the city imposes a home rule
municipal service occupation tax under 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5, the Home Rule
Municipal Service Occupation Tax Act.
   (B)   Under the Act this additional tax may not be imposed on the sales of
food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.161 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The tax imposed by the city under and pursuant to this subchapter and the
Act and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident of the tax
shall be collected and enforced by the State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.162 LIMITATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the city to
impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which, under the
Constitution of the United States, may not be made the subject of taxation by
the state. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this subchapter
shall be given effect in such a manner as to comply with the Home Rule
Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, as it shall from time to time be
amended.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.163 FILING.
   Upon becoming effective, the City Clerk is directed to file a duly certified
copy of this subchapter with the State Department of Revenue, as required by
the Act, on or before October 1, 2011.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 35.164 EFFECTIVE.
   Pursuant to the city’s home rule authority and 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, this
subchapter shall become effective immediately upon its adoption and approval,
and the tax as established in §
35.160 shall be given effect in the time and manner as, provided in the Act.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 8-23-2011)
MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.175 OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subchapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-24.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 9-24-2024)
§ 35.176 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in § 35.75. The imposition of this
tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-24.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 9-24-2024)
§ 35.177 ADMINISTRATION.
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shalt be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 9-24-2024)
§ 35.178 FILING.
   As required under 65 ILCS 5/8-11-24, the Clerk is hereby directed to file a
certified copy of the ordinance codified in this subchapter with the Illinois
Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2024.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 9-24-2024)
§ 35.179 EFFECTIVE.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall take effect on the later of: (i)
January 1, 2026; (ii) the first day of July next following the adoption ind
filing of this subchapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before
the preceding April 1; or (iii) the first day of January next following the
adoption and filing of this subchapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed
on or before the preceding October 1.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 9-24-2024)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
35.040 through
35.047 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $200, and in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-2) (1999 Code, § 36-3-9)
   (C)   Any collector or taxpayer who fails to file a return, or who files a
fraudulent return, or who usefully violates any provision of §§
35.060 through
35.065 shall, upon connection thereof, be fined not less than $500 and shall be
liable for the amount of the tax due.
(1999 Code, § 36-4-7)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
35.080 through
35.084 shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in §
10.99. See §§
32.45 through
32.52, which establishes the Foreign Fire Insurance Board.
(1999 Code, § 36-5-6)
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
35.125 through
35.133 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $750.
Each day during which the violation continues shall be regarded as a separate
punishable offense.
(Ord. 346, passed 8-13-1985; Ord. 347, passed 8-13-1985; Ord. 348, passed 8-13-
1985; Ord. 11-85, passed 8-13-1985; Ord. 5-98, passed 8-25-1998; Ord. 12-11,
passed 7-31-2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
51.   WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE DEPARTMENT
      
52.   RATES AND REGULATIONS
      
53.   WATER SYSTEM
      
54.   UTILITY RATES
      
55.   SEWER SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection by authorized collector required
   
50.03   Proper disposal required
   
50.04   Containers required
   
50.05   Container standards
   
50.06   Location of containers
   
50.07   Deposit of materials
   
50.08   Collection
   
50.09   Collection vehicles
   
50.10   Additional service
   
50.11   Collection of service charges
   
50.12   Collection contracts
   
50.13   Contract bidding
   
50.14   Bond
   
50.15   Statement of operations
   
50.16   Contract provisions
   
50.17   Trash collection fee
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED COLLECTOR.  A person, firm or corporation with whom the city has
contracted for the collection, removal and disposal of garbage and rubbish.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Stores, restaurants, hotels, offices, wholesale
establishments, retail establishments, hospitals, plants, shops, manufacturing
establishments, schools and churches. (The term is not construed to include
apartments, flats, private dwellings or boarding houses.)
   GARBAGE. Food wastes from homes, kitchens, apartments and similar
establishments.
   RUBBISH. Refuse such as waste paper, rags, cartons, boxes, excelsior,
leather, cloth, material, shrub trimmings tied in bundles not to exceed two
feet in length, yard trimmings, tin cans, glass bottles, crockery, ashes and
clinkers from heating plant furnaces, or other materials light in weight and
easily handled or a combination of any two or more of the foregoing types of
materials. RUBBISH does not include ashes or cinders from other than household
or small heating plants, tree limbs, street sweepings, catch basin murk,
concrete, dirt, concrete mortar or plaster mortar, stones, bricks, scrap metal
or other similar construction materials resulting from the erection or
destruction of buildings.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-1)
§ 50.02 COLLECTION BY AUTHORIZED COLLECTOR REQUIRED.
   All garbage and rubbish as defined herein within the city shall be
collected, removed and disposed of by an authorized collector in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of this code; provided, however, nothing in
this code shall be construed as to prohibit haulers or collectors from
collecting and removing garbage and rubbish from business establishments under
private contract, so long as such private haulers comply with local and state
law.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-2)
§ 50.03 PROPER DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dispose of any
garbage or rubbish by depositing the same in or on any public alley, street,
roadway, highway, vacant lot or property of any kind or character within the
city or in any stream or body of water within the city or by burning the same;
provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit
the disposition of garbage in a garbage disposal unit nor the disposition of
garbage or rubbish as may be otherwise permitted by the laws of the state or by
the rules and regulations of any agency or department of the state. Garbage at
all but business establishments shall be drained, wrapped in paper or placed in
a sanitary bag and kept dry in a metal container until removed by the
authorized collector.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   Each and every owner, tenant, housekeeper or other person or persons
occupying any room, dwelling, house, apartment, mobile home, trailer or other
building or portion thereof and producing or responsible for the disposal of
garbage or rubbish which is to be collected by the authorized collector shall
provide and renew when necessary a sufficient number of containers to hold the
garbage or rubbish accumulating therein.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-4)
§ 50.05 CONTAINER STANDARDS.
   All containers shall be of metal with tight-fitting cover, with strong
handles on the outside and shall be water-tight. Each container shall have a
capacity of not less than five gallons nor more than 20 gallons and within
these limits shall be of sufficient capacity to hold all the garbage and
rubbish accumulating on the premises between collections and the contents
thereof shall be kept in such condition that it can, at all times, be readily
and fully removed by the authorized collector to make collections of such
garbage and rubbish. All containers shall be maintained in a good and sanitary
condition by the owner thereof.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-5)
§ 50.06 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful to place or keep containers on any public street,
alley, place or elsewhere, except on private property; provided, however,
containers may be placed on designated locations along public streets on
collection days for a sufficient length of time to permit the authorized
collector to make collections of such garbage. Containers for garbage or
rubbish shall be placed and at all times kept and provided on private property;
provided, however, that on collection days, such containers shall be placed in
plain view at that part of the premises which borders the nearest public street
adjacent to such street. When such property does not abut on such a public
street, then such container shall on collection days be placed in plain view
adjacent to the rear building line on such premises. If more than one container
is necessary to hold the garbage or rubbish accumulating on the premises or if
more than one container is used for the garbage or rubbish from any building,
all containers shall be placed at the same location for collection.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 DEPOSIT OF MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit in a
container from which garbage or rubbish is to be removed by the authorized
collector any material other than garbage or rubbish as defined in this code,
if any container contains any material other than garbage or rubbish, the
authorized collector shall not be obliged to remove the contents of such
container.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 COLLECTION.
   The authorized collector shall collect and remove garbage and rubbish from
the premises of dwellings, apartments and flats one time weekly except that no
collection shall be made on Sunday or holidays recognized in the city, and
there shall be an interval of at least two days between each collection. All
collections shall be made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-8)
§ 50.09 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   The authorized collector shall in the collection of garbage and rubbish use
only sanitary leak-proof compactor type vehicles which comply with the
requirements of the Board of Health and the laws and regulations of the state
and any of those appropriate agencies.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-9)
§ 50.10 ADDITIONAL SERVICE.
   Should any resident or householder desire more frequent or greater service
than that above set forth, the same and the charges therefor shall be a matter
of private contract between such resident or householder and the authorized
collector.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-10)
§ 50.11 COLLECTION OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The city may provide by contract for the collection of garbage and rubbish
within the city, the removal therefrom and disposal thereof on whatever basis
is deemed reasonable and advisable by the City Council. In the event such
contract provides for specific service charges to be paid by each householder,
establishment or other firm, person or corporation receiving and accepting such
service to the duly authorized contractor then all billing for and the
collection of such service charges shall be by the city acting through its
Water Department and using its Water Department billing system or other
appropriate means. The duly authorized collector shall be authorized to
discontinue the service of picking up, removing and disposing of such garbage
and rubbish to any person, firm or corporation who fails to pay the service
charge therefor. The city shall make diligent efforts to collect, but after
such diligent efforts are made the city is relieved of further obligation for
the collection of unpaid and/or delinquent accounts. In the event that the city
after diligent efforts is unable to collect the service charge or fee called
for hereunder, the contractor or authorized agent may pursue any remedy at law
or equity to collect such fee or service charge; in no case, however, may the
contractor hold the city financially responsible for the payment of any such
fee or service charge.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-11)
§ 50.12 COLLECTION CONTRACTS.
   All contracts for collecting, removing and disposing of garbage and rubbish
under the provisions of this code shall be let to the lowest and best
responsible bidder, the right being reserved to reject any and all bids,
provided, if no bids are received or all are rejected, the city may proceed to
let the contract as if no bids had been sought or received by advertising for
new bids.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-12)
§ 50.13 CONTRACT BIDDING.
   The City Clerk shall advertise for sealed bids for any work to be done by
contract under the provisions of this code, by publication one time in a
newspaper published and/or having a general circulation and distributed in the
city; such publication shall not be less than ten days prior to the opening of
said bids. The published notice shall call for sealed bids for a contract
period to be designated in the notice and such bids may be called for in the
alternative for different periods and the city shall accept that bid which in
its judgment will best serve the interest of the city provided that no contract
shall be let for a period of less than one year, nor more than three years, and
said contract shall provide that the term thereof shall in the agreement of the
city and its authorized collector be mutually extended for an additional like
period. Each bid shall be accompanied by cash or certified or cashier’s check
on some bank or trust company in the county, payable to the city in the sum of
$500 as a guarantee that the successful bidder will upon the award being made
enter into the contract hereinafter provided for. The cash or checks of
unsuccessful bidders shall be returned to them.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-13)
§ 50.14 BOND.
   Upon the award being made, the successful bidder shall, within ten days of
notice, file with the City Clerk a contract duly executed by him or her for the
doing of the work and shall likewise file with the City Clerk a personal bond
in the amount of $1,000 with individual surety to be approved by the Mayor,
conditioned on said contract and that the successful bidder will comply with
all the laws, ordinances, rulings and orders of the United States, the state,
the county and the city, and that he or she make payment to all persons whom he
or she may become indebted to by reason of this contract, and that he or she
will pay all damages to the city that may arise from injury to person or
property if the result of any negligence on his or her part in doing of the
work, and should the bidder fail to execute said contract or to file said bond
as herein provided within the time specified, to-wit, ten days, the deposit
herein referred to shall be forfeited to the city as liquidated damages. Upon
filing the contract and bond as herein provided, the amount accompanying his or
her bid shall be returned to him or her.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-14)
§ 50.15 STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS.
   Each bidder shall, when requested, submit to the city a written statement
showing in detail the kind, character and nature of equipment, a statement of
his or her financial condition, and such other information requested as will
bear upon his or her ability to perform and comply with its contract during its
entire term. At any time during the term of said contract or any renewal or
extension thereof, the contractor shall, when requested, submit to the city a
written statement showing completely and truly the entire operations of the
business under said contract and a complete and accurate financial and profit
and loss statement on such business operation.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-15)
§ 50.16 CONTRACT PROVISIONS.
   The contract to be entered into hereunder shall provide that the contractor
shall furnish the necessary vehicles and trucks and equipment which shall be of
the type required under provisions of this code for the collection, removal and
disposal of garbage and rubbish.
(1999 Code, § 17-1-16)
§ 50.17 TRASH COLLECTION FEE.
   The fee for trash collection and disposal service for each residential
customer within the corporate limits of the city shall be $14 per month,
effective March 1st, 2022.
(Ord. 08-11, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 01-17, passed 1-24-2017; Ord. 04-22, passed
3-8-2022)
CHAPTER 51: WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
51.01   Department established
   
51.02   Water and Sewer Committee
   
51.03   Superintendent of Public Works
   
51.04   Duties of Superintendent
§ 51.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be an executive department of the city known as the Waterworks
and Sewage Department. It shall include the Water Superintendent, the Sewer
Superintendent and employees of the Department. The designated office shall be
the City Hall.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 51.02 WATER AND SEWER COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Water and Sewer shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the departments. They shall ascertain
the condition and needs thereof, and shall, from time to time, report the same
to the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding thereof shall be
had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of
the Departments.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-2)
§ 51.03 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Superintendent shall be subject to the supervision of the Water and
Sewer Committee. Each Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the advice and consent of the City Council, and shall hold office until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified. They shall receive such salary
as may be provided by the annual budget of the City Council at the time of his
or her appointment.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-3)
§ 51.04 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   Each Superintendent shall exercise general management and control over his
or her respective department.
   (A)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct and
performance of all employees of the department as a department head in
accordance with the Personnel Code.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the city’s water system or sewerage system as provided in this code.
   (C)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the city for the use of his or her
department.
   (D)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this title and make such
inspections, measurements and tests as necessary for that purpose.
   (E)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the provisions of this code or by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 38-1-4)
CHAPTER 52: RATES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Contract for utility services
   
52.02   Consumer lists
   
52.03   Liability for charges
   
52.04   Estimated charge
   
52.05   No free service
   
52.06   Resale prohibited
   
52.07   Discontinuance of water service; customer
   
52.08   Utility deposits
   
52.09   Rules to become part of contract
§ 52.01 CONTRACT FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules and regulations contained
in this title shall constitute and be considered a part of the contract with
every person, company or corporation who is supplied with utility services from
the water and sewer systems and every person company or corporation hereinafter
called a “customer” who accepts and uses utility services shall be held to have
consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The city shall endeavor at all
times to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service; however, in
case the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular or defective or
fail from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of
employees, servants or agents, the Department shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Using services without paying. Any person using utility services from
the city without paying therefor or who shall be found guilty of breaking the
seal of any meter or appurtenances or bypassing any meter shall be guilty of
violating this code and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum as provided in
Chapters 30 and
31.
   (D)   Destroying property. Any person found guilty of defacing, tampering,
injuring or destroying, or in any manner, limiting the use or availability of
any meter or any property of the utility systems, or erecting signs on the
property of the utility systems without permission shall, upon conviction of
such act, be fined as provided in
Chapters 30 and
31.
   (E)   Service obtained by fraud. All contracts for utility services must be
made in the name of the head of the household, firm or corporation using the
established spelling of that person’s or firm’s name. Attempts to obtain
service by the use of other names, different spellings or by substituting names
of other persons or firms shall be considered a subterfuge and service shall be
denied. If service has been discontinued because of non-payment of bills or any
unpaid obligation and service has again been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation or fraud, that service shall be promptly disconnected and the
whole or such part of the advanced payment as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation shall be retained by the city and credited to the appropriate
account.
   (F)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the Department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the next billing shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
   (G)   Request to discontinue service. Services shall have been deemed to
have been supplied to any property connected to the utility systems during a
month unless the customer notifies the city prior to the first day of the new
billing month in which the utility services are to be discontinued.
   (H)   Billing; utility shut-off.
      (1)   All bills for utility services shall be due and payable upon
presentation. If a bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, a
penalty equal to 10% of the amount due on said bill shall be added thereto.
This penalty shall be in addition to the charges heretofore established for the
utility services.
      (2)   If a utility bill is not paid by the due date printed on the bill,
the city shall notify the customer and/or the owner of such failure to pay, and
shall give further notice of:
         (a)   Name and address of the consumer and/or the owner or both, and
the amount of his bill;
         (b)   The customer’s right to dispute the amount of his or her bill or
the proposed action of terminating his or her service;
         (c)   The method whereby the customer may exercise his or her right as
set forth in division (H)(2)(b) above; and
         (d)   That the failure of the customer to exercise his or her right to
dispute the action being taken or the amount of the bill, will result in the
customer’s utility service being terminated without further proceedings.
      (3)   Once utility services have been terminated, the same shall not
again be connected or used until all delinquent accounts and bills of service
are paid in full, including a fee of $40 for each connection of utility
services, plus expenses incurred in the reconnecting of the utility services.
      (4)   The $40 fee for each connection or reconnection of utility
services, plus expenses incurred in the connecting and reconnecting of utility
services, shall apply to all consumers whether the pause of services was
voluntary or involuntary, whether the property is owner or non-owner occupied,
and whether the property is residential or commercial.
   (I)   Collection fees and liens.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for utility services remains unpaid for 30 days
after it has been rendered, the Clerk may submit a statement of the past due
account balance to a collection agency for further action.
         (a)   A collection fee of the delinquent municipal debt may be added
by the collection agency and assessed to the consumer responsible for the debt.
         (b)   The statement shall contain the commonly known description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid municipal debt, the dates the
municipal debt became delinquent, and a brief notice that the consumer (not the
city) will be assessed any collection fees associated with collection of said
municipal debt (§ 52.01(I) to be referenced.)
      (2)   Whenever a bill for utility services remains unpaid for 30 days
after it has been rendered, the Clerk may file a statement of lien claim with
the County Recorder of Deeds. This statement shall contain a legal description
of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, the date the bill became
delinquent, and a notice that the municipality claims a lien for this amount as
well as for all charges for utility services served subsequent to the period
covered by the bill.
         (a)   If the consumer of utility services whose bill is unpaid is not
the owner of the premises and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises whenever such bill remains unpaid for a
period of 30 days after it has been rendered.
         (b)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid utility bills as mentioned herein.
   (J)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid utility
charges may be sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be billed in the
name of the city. The City Attorney is hereby authorized to institute such
proceedings in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over such
matters, against any property for which the bill for utility services has
remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-1) (Ord. 16-97, passed 11-12-1997; Ord. 10-17, passed 8-22-
2017; Ord. 19-19, passed 9-24-2019)
§ 52.02 CONSUMER LISTS.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Superintendent to prepare or cause to be
prepared an accurate list of all premises and properties receiving utility
services, showing the name and address of the occupant and/or owner of the
same. The list shall be kept up-to-date, and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises. It shall be presented at the first regular monthly meeting.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-2)
§ 52.03 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel or land or premises receiving utility services,
the occupant of such premises and the user of the services shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of the services to such lot, parcel of land or
premises and all services are rendered to the premises by the city only on the
condition that such owner, occupant and user shall be jointly and severally
liable to the city therefor. Further, all utility services shall be
discontinued until such a time as all bills for the premises are paid in full.
(Ord. 3-94, passed 2-8-1994; Ord. 16-97, passed 11-12-1997)
§ 52.04 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   (A)   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or from any
cause, fails to properly register the utilities passing through the same, the
consumer shall be charged the average usage charge of the previous three
months.
   (B)   If no record of the previous three months exists, then it shall be the
duty of the collector to estimate the amount of utilities consumed during the
time the meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall be charged with such
estimated amount.
   (C)   Bills may be estimated whenever it is impossible to read the meters
during inclement weather.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-4)
§ 52.05 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished to any person and all rates and charges
shall be non-discriminatory, provided that the Mayor and City Council reserve
the right to impose special rates and charges in cases where particular
circumstances render the regular rates inadequate or unjust.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-5)
§ 52.06 RESALE PROHIBITED.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the city supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in cases of emergency.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-6)
§ 52.07 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE; CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The customer shall notify the city of any change in occupancy. No
adjustment of bills will be made by the city as between the owners or tenants
unless ten days notice prior to the change of occupancy has been given to the
city. No rebate will be given for unoccupied premises unless notice of non-
occupancy is given.
   (B)   Any customer may discontinue water service by giving the city notice
not less than ten days prior to the discontinuance, and all liability for
charges for service rendered after the discontinuance of service as herein
provided for shall cease. Even if the discontinuance of utility service is
voluntary, reconnection fees and expenses incurred in the reconnecting of the
utility services will apply, and reconnection will not occur until the account
is paid in full (see §
52.01(H)(3)).
(1999 Code, § 38-2-7) (Ord. 10-17, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 52.08 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential. When any application is made for utility services in
accordance with the provisions of this title, the applicant for whom such
service is required and who (inside city/outside city) does not own the
property to be served shall pay a deposit with the application in the amount as
follows:
 
      Inside City Outside City
Water $150        $150
 
   (B)   Commercial.
      (1)   When any application is made for utility services by a commercial
or industrial user in accordance with the provisions of division (A) above, the
applicant shall pay a deposit with the application in the amount of $150 for
water and sewer service.
      (2)   Where the amount of the deposit provided for above is not
sufficient to adequately protect the Water and Sewer Department, a greater
amount than stated above may be required, based upon the consumer's estimated
bill for a customary billing period.
   (C)   Security for payment; no interest. The deposits made under the
provisions of this title shall be held by the city as security for the payment
of utilities used by the applicant upon the premises to which his or her
application pertains and may be so applied when default is made in the payment
in the utilities bill in accordance with this title. The depositor shall be
refunded with no interest if the service is being terminated and all bills have
been paid when due.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-8) (Ord. 16-97, passed 11-12-1997; Ord. 14-22, passed 11-9-
2022)
§ 52.09 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water and sewer utilities shall be adopted and the same shall become a part of
the contract with every consumer and every consumer shall be considered to
consume utilities from the city, subject thereto and bound thereby.
(1999 Code, § 38-2-9)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Application for service connections to waterworks system
   
53.002   All service to be by meter
   
53.003   Installing and maintaining service lines
   
53.004   Meter damaged
   
53.005   Dangerous usage
   
53.006   Electric ground wires
   
53.007   Liability of owner
   
53.008   Responsibility for shortage of supply
   
53.009   Emergency short supply
   
53.010   Noncompliance with rules
   
53.011   Inspection
   
53.012   Fire hydrants
   
53.013   Maintenance of service lines
   
53.014   Use of streets and alleys for water and sewer line easements
Cross-Connection Control
   
53.025   Requirements
   
53.026   Private connection unlawful
   
53.027   Investigation by Superintendent
   
53.028   Cross-connection control inspection
   
53.029   Discontinuance of service
   
53.030   Contamination costs
Extension of Mains
   
53.045   Main extension agreement
   
53.046   Easements
   
53.047   Size and type
   
53.048   Title
   
53.049   Maintenance and replacement
Cross-Connection Administration
   
53.060   Approved backflow device
   
53.061   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
53.062   Investigations by Superintendent
   
53.063   Right to enter premises
   
53.064   Notice to customer; reconnect fee
   
53.065   Contaminations cost and the consumer
Cross-Connection Control Code
   
53.080   Purpose
   
53.081   Application
   
53.082   Policy
   
53.083   Definitions
   
53.084   Water system
   
53.085   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.086   Survey and investigations
   
53.087   Where protection is required
   
53.088   Type of protection required
   
53.089   Backflow prevention devices
   
53.090   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.091   Booster pumps
   
53.092   Violations
Extensions of Mains
   
53.105   Determination of who pays expense of extension
   
53.106   Easements
   
53.107   Size and type
   
53.108   Title
   
53.109   Maintenance and replacement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   An applicant desiring a water service connection with the city waterworks
system shall file a written application at the City Hall, signed by the owner
of the property for which the tap or service connection is desired, or by the
duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall be accompanied by
payment of the fee prescribed in §
54.15 to cover the cost of such service connection. In the event the
application is made by an agent for the owner, then the application shall also
be accompanied by the written authority of the owner to the agent for the
making of the application. As soon as possible thereafter, the Superintendent
shall authorize a service tap connection to be made and a service line laid to
the lot line of the applicant’s property.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-1)
§ 53.002 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use shall
be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed so as to render the
same accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing and so as
to be free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set
in a suitable meter box approved by the Superintendent. Water shall not be
turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all other
requirements of this title on the part of the property owner or the applicant
have been fully complied with.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 53.003 INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of service
lines between the curb stop and the residence or business. Such service lines
must be at least three-fourths of an inch in diameter and must be installed at
a minimum depth of three and one-fourth feet. Service lines must have a minimum
working pressure rating of 160 psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of
the following types of materials: copper, type k, polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene or polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are
inspected and approved by a duly authorized city representative. The user shall
not connect any service lines or any plumbing connected with the service line
to any other water source. The service lines shall meet any requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-3) (Ord. 16-97, passed 11-12-1997)
§ 53.004 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus, or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the city for
the actual cost of the removal, repair and replacement of the damaged meter and
all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to cover such
period as it appears that the meter was out of order for such damage.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 53.005 DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The city shall have the right to refuse water service or to discontinue
water service without notice at any time to any consumer if the city finds any
apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be detrimental to the
water system of the city or to any or all of its consumers. Standpipes,
hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause water damage or any
danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing shall be immediately
repaired or removed upon notice from the city or, at its option, the city may
immediately discontinue the service without notice and without any liability
for damages direct or resulting therefrom.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 53.006 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire to any
plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water service
pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the city. The city will hold the
owner of the premises responsible and liable for any damage to the property or
injury to the employees of the city caused by such ground wire. All owners and
consumers shall remove any existing ground wires immediately upon written
notice from the city. If not so disconnected within five days of written
notice, the city, through its officials, may enter the property and remove such
ground wires and the consumer shall pay all costs.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-6)
§ 53.007 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner shall be liable for any future expenses for the alteration and
repair, extension or other changes to the water line up to the curb stop. The
city will maintain from the curb stop to the main.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-7) (Ord. 16-97, passed 11-12-1997)
§ 53.008 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SHORTAGE OF SUPPLY.
   The city shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body for any claim or damage, either direct
or resultant because of any shortage of water supply or any shut-off of water
supply for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or
city’s mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply, or
any fire or water damage.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-8)
§ 53.009 EMERGENCY SHORT SUPPLY.
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the corporate authorities, the water supply
of the city is diminished to such an extent that a critical water shortage is
eminent, then in such case the corporate authorities are authorized to declare
an emergency, and in connection therewith, are authorized to restrict the use
of water from the water system of the city by regulating and restricting the
use of the water.
   (B)   Such regulations and restrictions as deemed proper in the judgment of
the corporate authorities shall be enacted by resolution and either:
      (1)   Published in a newspaper generally circulated in the city so that
water users may have notice thereof; or
      (2)   All water users shall be notified by mail of such restrictions.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-9)
§ 53.010 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   If any consumer fails to comply fully with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the city shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the consumer
does not remedy the same as the rules provide and within a reasonable time, the
city shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in cases of non-
payment, emergency, necessity or as otherwise provided, the city will not
discontinue service for violation of any rules until five days after notice has
been given and the existing violation has not been remedied.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-10)
§ 53.011 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access to premises. The city shall have access to all portions of the
premises of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of
water and the consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing and any other apparatus in
any manner connected to the water system of the city. The city shall have the
right and option to demand change or discontinuance of use or to require any
repair, change, removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other
apparatus that would, in any manner, affect the water supply or system of the
city or the supply or fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections and appurtenances on private property connected with the waterworks
system of the city shall be open to the inspection of the proper officers and
employees of the city at all reasonable hours.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-11)
§ 53.012 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants shall be owned, maintained and used only by the city. Use
of water from the fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon
permission by the city after approved application to the city.
   (B)   The city shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside the city
limits or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom or any damages,
either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure or amount of
water available from any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants outside any city limits which are owned by
the city will be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but the
city will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their
condition, use or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only for the
purpose of extinguishing fire, except when the city may issue a special permit
for their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for the hydrants and
the use of water from them.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 53.013 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other sections herein, the City Water Department will
maintain, in accordance with the ordinances of this city, all existing
individual water services from the water main to and including the curb valve,
regardless of trouble or location at no expense to the customer.
   (B)   After the meter is placed only officers or employees of the city,
properly authorized, shall be allowed to repair, remove or in any manner
interfere with the same. The user of any meter shall at all times be
responsible for any damage done to such meter.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-13) (Ord. 15-90, passed 8-28-1990; Ord. 16-97, passed 11-12-
1997)
§ 53.014 USE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS FOR WATER AND SEWER LINE EASEMENTS.
   The City Council hereby authorizes the use of the streets, alleys, roadways
and rights-of-way, whether dedicated, platted, existing in use or closed, for
the construction, replacement, operation and maintenance and repair of water
and wastewater systems of the city.
(Ord. 09-21, passed 7-13-2021)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 53.025 REQUIREMENTS.
   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with the
State Plumbing Code, or if, in the judgment of the City Superintendent, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the water customer
to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at
his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency and
local regulations.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-16)
§ 53.026 PRIVATE CONNECTION UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply of the city enters the supply
or distribution system of the municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Water Superintendent and the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.027 INVESTIGATION BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years,
or as often as the Superintendent shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-18)
§ 53.028 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL INSPECTION.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the
Superintendent or his or her designated authorized agent shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-
connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessee(s) or occupant(s)
of any property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent any information
which he or she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use
on such property. The refusal of such information when demanded shall, within
the discretion of the Superintendent, be deemed evidence of the presence of
improper connections as provided in this code.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-19)
§ 53.029 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this code is known to
exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this code and until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the
city, immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be affected when the
Superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be affected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Superintendent or the State Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply. Neither the public water supply, the
Superintendent or agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any
injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of the
customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this code, whether or
not said termination was with or without notice.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-20) (Ord. 15-22, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 53.030 CONTAMINATION COSTS.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow must bear the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system if
contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal
cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device or a
device which has been bypassed.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-21) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-11-1989)
EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 53.045 MAIN EXTENSION AGREEMENTS.
   Upon application for water service in areas not served by a city-owned water
main, the city may, with approval of the City Council, authorize the extension
of the main at the expense of the applicant.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-25)
§ 53.046 EASEMENTS.
   Applicants for main extensions shall deliver, without cost to the city,
permanent easements or rights-of-way when necessary for the installation and
maintenance of the extensions or subsequent additions thereto. The city shall
not be obligated to authorize any construction until all requirements of this
title have been met.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-26)
§ 53.047 SIZE AND TYPE.
   The city reserves the right to determine and specify the diameter and type
of pipe required to provide the service requested, and subject to the
requirements of municipal authorities, its location within or without the
limits of a street. The city further reserves the right to install a main
larger in diameter than the main required to render the service requested, in
which case, the city will pay the difference in cost.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-27)
§ 53.048 TITLE.
   Title to all main extensions shall be vested in the city and the city shall
have the right to further extend any main installed in and to other streets or
premises without repayment or refund to any applicant; however, the city
reserves the right to consider extensions made at the applicant’s expense and
without written agreement as to service lines. Upon such lines, the city will
set a meter at the beginning of the extension to measure all water used and
title to the line beyond the meter will be vested in the customer who shall be
responsible for maintenance and replacement, when necessary.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-28)
§ 53.049 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The city, at its own expense, shall maintain and when necessary, replace the
city-owned mains used to supply water to its customers, and if adequate service
requires the reconstruction or replacement of such mains, the mains shall be
reconstructed or replaced by the city at its expense.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-29)
CROSS-CONNECTION ADMINISTRATION
§ 53.060 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the city, shall installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. That, if in accordance with the
State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water
customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his or her own expense, install an approved device at a location and
in a manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency and
local regulations.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-30)
§ 53.061 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the city, unless
such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection
and use of such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water
and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.062 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years
or as often as the Superintendent shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-32)
§ 53.063 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections and that the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessee or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent any information which he or she
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information when demanded shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent, be deemed evidence of the presence of
improper connections as provided in this title.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-33)
§ 53.064 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this title is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this title and
until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the city.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be affected when the
Superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be affected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Superintendent or the State Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
   (C)   The City Water Department, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents
or assigns shall not be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of the customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this title, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-34) (Ord. 15-22, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 53.065 CONTAMINATIONS COST AND THE CONSUMER.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-35) (Ord. 8-94, passed 4-12-1994)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE
§ 53.080 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-36)
§ 53.081 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the city.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-37)
§ 53.082 POLICY.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or backsiphonage
of contaminants through the customer’s water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the consumer to
install such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to
the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair as required in §
53.086(D) below for a period of at least five years. The Superintendent of
Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report
to the City Water Department to assist in determining whether or not service
line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-38)
§ 53.083 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system, or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams or process fluids, or used water. These waters may be polluted
or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. The customer’s premises. A building any water
system located on plumbing system is considered to be a customer’s water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the State Plumbing Code,
77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.120.
   PLUMBING.  The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890.120 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, or
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closed shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-39)
§ 53.084 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-40)
§ 53.085 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-41)
§ 53.086 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and backsiphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-42)
§ 53.087 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the
judgment of the Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history or cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverages processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-43)
§ 53.088 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
53.087 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
53.087 of these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-44)
§ 53.089 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-45)
§ 53.090 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-46)
§ 53.091 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-47)
§ 53.092 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not installed,
tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a
low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the City Water Department, the Superintendent or its agents or
assigns, shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water
supply in accordance with the terms of this title, whether or not said
termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this title shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or
damaged occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the same
was caused before or after notice.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-48) (Ord. 8-94, passed 4-12-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXTENSIONS OF MAINS
§ 53.105 DETERMINATION OF WHO PAYS EXPENSE OF EXTENSION.
   The City Council shall first determine if an extension of water main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If
the extension is economically feasible, then the city may install and pay the
cost of the extension at the discretion of the City Council. If the city elects
not to pay the cost of extending the water main, then the person or persons
desiring water service shall install the extension at their own personal
expense upon written consent by the City Council. The city shall not pay for
any extensions to an undeveloped area such as a subdivision being developed
unless there are sufficient existing residents or businesses to make the
extension economically feasible.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-51)
§ 53.106 EASEMENTS.
   Applicants for main extensions shall deliver, without cost to the city,
permanent easements or rights-of-way when necessary for the installation and
maintenance of the extensions or subsequent additions thereto. The city shall
not be obligated to authorize any construction until all requirements of this
title have been met.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-52)
§ 53.107 SIZE AND TYPE.
   The city reserves the right to determine and specify the diameter and type
of pipe required to provide the service requested, and subject to the
requirements of municipal authorities, its location within or without the
limits of a street. The city further reserves the right to install a main
larger in diameter than the main required to render the service requested, in
which case, the city will pay the difference in cost.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-53)
§ 53.108 TITLE.
   Title to all main extensions shall be vested in the city and the city shall
have the right to further extend any main installed in and to other streets or
premises without repayment or refund to any applicant; however, the city
reserves the right to consider extensions made at the applicant’s expense and
without written agreement as to service lines. Upon such lines, the city will
set a meter at the beginning of the extension to measure all water used and
title to the line beyond the meter will be vested in the customer who shall be
responsible for maintenance and replacement, when necessary.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-54)
§ 53.109 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The city, at its own expense, shall maintain and when necessary, replace the
city-owned mains used to supply water to its customers, and if adequate service
requires the reconstruction or replacement of such mains, the mains shall be
reconstructed or replaced by the city at its expense.
(1999 Code, § 38-3-55)
CHAPTER 54: UTILITY RATES
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Building unit defined
   
54.02   Meters tested by request; deposit required
   
54.03   Disputes between city and customer
Water Rates
   
54.15   Cost of tap and water service connection
   
54.16   Rates
   
54.17   Charge for discontinuing service
   
54.18   Highway 37 N. Water District
   
54.19   Pittsburg rates
Capping Fees
   
54.30   Capping permit required
   
54.31   Fee to Clerk
   
54.32   Location of premises
   
54.33   Capping required
   
54.34   Inspection designated
   
54.35   Noncompliance penalties
Wastewater Service Charges
   
54.50   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
54.51   Measurement of flow
   
54.52   Debt service charge
   
54.53   Basic user rate
   
54.54   Surcharge rate
   
54.55   Computation of surcharge
   
54.56   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
54.57   Sewer rates for White Ash and the like
   
54.58   Revenues
   
54.59   Accounts
   
54.60   Notice of rates
   
54.61   Access to records
   
54.62   Effective date of rates
   
54.63   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 BUILDING UNIT DEFINED.
   (A)   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it
homes or an apartment converted into more than one dwelling place, each family
or individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer
and such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one
minimum water and sewer account according to the number of families or
individual residents residing therein.
   (B)   Note: when two or more families live in one dwelling, one minimum per
family may be charged. If more than the minimum is used, the owner or occupant
of such dwelling shall pay the additional over such minimum as provided.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-1) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.02 METERS TESTED BY REQUEST; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A customer may request a meter to be tested for accuracy, in
accordance with the standard regulations for meter testing as prescribed by the
State Commerce Commission. Each request for the test of a meter for accuracy
shall be accompanied by a deposit of $50.
   (B)   If the meter so tested shall be found to be accurate within the limits
prescribed by the State Commerce Commission, the deposit shall be retained by
the Water and Sewer Department as compensation for such test.
      (1)   If the error in registration is found to be more than that
permitted by the Commission, then the cost of the test shall be borne by the
Department and the amount of the deposit shall be returned to the customer.
      (2)   The customer’s bill shall be adjusted for the previous 30 days in
accordance with the result of the tests if an error is established.
   (C)   The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be accepted as
correct by both the customer and the Water Department, except when the meter
has been found to be registering inaccurately or has ceased to register. In
either case, the meter will be promptly repaired by the Water Department and
the quantity of water used will be determined by the registration of the meter
in the same period for the preceding year.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-2) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 10-04, passed 5-25-
2004)
§ 54.03 DISPUTES BETWEEN CITY AND CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to have its City Council decide all
questions or disputes which may arise between the city and any customer and to
have the City Council interpret the meaning of all of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The decision of the City Council shall be final and binding upon the
city and customer, and the provisions of the section shall become a part of
every contract for utilities between the city and all customers.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-3) (Ord. 214, passed - -; Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
WATER RATES
§ 54.15 COST OF TAP AND WATER SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)    All water tap and service connections made to the mains of the city
waterworks system which are larger than three-fourths of an inch shall be the
actual cost of the materials as established by the City Council; provided,
however, the minimum cost shall not be less than $1,500.
   (B)   In the event that any individual makes an application for any new
service connection within 90 days of a previous new service connection request,
then the cost of such request shall not exceed the material cost for such
connection. The application of this provision shall not include any unusual or
extraordinary expense incurred in such connection.
   (C)   At the city’s discretion, a partial tap may be utilized in regards to
this section; provided, however, that the minimum cost for the partial tap
shall not be less than $750.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-7) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 12-2002, passed 9-10-
2002; Ord. 12-06, passed 10-24-2006; Ord. 01-23, passed 1-10-2023; Ord. 15-23,
passed 10-10-2023)
§ 54.16 RATES.
   All property upon which any building has been or may hereafter be erected
having a connection with any mains or pipes which may be thereafter constructed
and used in connection with the city water system shall pay the following rates
per month.
   (A)   Established. There shall be and there are hereby established rates and
charges for the use of and for the water supplied and furnished by the water
works system of the city, based on the amount of water consumed, as shown by
water meters, on all property upon which any building has been or may hereafter
be erected having a connection to any mains or pipes used in connection with
the city water system, as follows.
      (1)   For one month:
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons or less: $17.82 minimum (effective the
August, 2011, billing cycle);
         (b)   Next 3,000 gallons or less: $6.61 per 1,000 gallons;
         (c)   Next 5,000 gallons or less: $6.18 per 1,000 gallons;
         (d)   Next 5,000 gallons or less: $5.75 per 1,000 gallons;
         (e)   Next 5,000 gallons or less: $5.54 per 1,000 gallons;
         (f)   Next 979,999 gallons or less: $4.89 per 1,000 gallons; and
         (g)   Over 1,000,000 gallons: $4.70 per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   The minimum bill for water service and for water supplied to
property inside the corporate limits shall be $17.82, effective starting the
August, 2011, billing cycle, for one month’s service.
      (3)   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and
surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of 100 gallons.
   (B)   Outside city rates. The City Council may from time to time enter into
contracts with persons or corporations for the sale of water in large volumes
outside of the corporate limits. The rates for such sales shall be as agreed to
in such contracts.
   (C)   Bulk sales. All water sold in bulk to tanks shall be at the rate of
$0.50 per 100 gallons.
   (D)   Multi-unit building. However, in the case of multi-unit buildings,
residence, business or both, the minimum rate shall be $9.25 per month, plus
any fraction thereof, above the minimum usage for each residence and business
unit in such building with the following exception of a:
      (1)   Physician, dentist, lawyer, architect, engineer, accountant,
insurance agent, customary incidental home occupations operating within their
residence, hotels, motels, boarding houses and lodging houses; and
      (2)   The multi-unit buildings, residences, businesses or both located at
the following addresses:
         (a)   601 N. Broadway;
         (b)   200 E. 7th Street;
         (c)   200-1/2 E. Broadway, 200 E. Broadway, 603 E. Washington;
         (d)   301 E. Broadway;
         (e)   203 E. Broadway;
         (f)   315 E. Broadway, 317 E. Broadway;
         (g)   401 E. Broadway, 401-1/2 E. Broadway;
         (h)   411 Adams Street;
         (i)   1107 Market Street;
         (j)   1000 Gent Street, 1000A Gent Street;
         (k)   910 Barham Street, 910-1/2 Barham Street;
         (l)   903 Trout Street, 903-1/2 Trout Street;
         (m)   804 Water Street;
         (n)   505 W. Broadway, 505-1/2 W. Broadway;
         (o)   1000 W. Broadway;
         (p)   905 W. 5th Street, 907 W. 5th Street;
         (q)   1400 Brush Street;
         (r)   217 1/2 E. Broadway; and
         (s)   201 E. 8th Street, 201-1/2 E. 8th Street.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-8) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 13-97, passed 9-23-
1997; Ord. 17-96, passed 11-12-1997; Ord. 17-97, passed 11-12-1997; Ord. 11-
2002, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 07-11, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 11-12, passed 6-26-
2012)
§ 54.17 CHARGE FOR DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   (A)   If water is disconnected for nonpayment of water and/or sewer bills or
other just cause as expressed in Chapters 51 through 55, then a reconnection
fee of $100 shall be due and collected by the Water Department. After three
reconnection fees have been paid on a property it will be subject to a remote
shut off valve installed.
   (B)   All water, sewer and trash bills of the city shall bear the words:
"Pay by due date to avoid disconnection". No further notice or process before
disconnection shall be required. Any prior ordinance that purports to require
further notice or process before disconnection shall be ruled by the
requirements of this division (B).
   (C)   Disconnection of water service for nonpayment of water and/or sewer
bills may be made at any time 31 days after any bill remains unpaid after it
has become due and payable. If a customer moves to a new location within the
city's service area and has a reconnect surcharge pursuant to division (A)
above, the customer shall be connected at the prevailing charge at that time
but any reconnections required by disconnection due to nonpayment shall be
pursuant to division (A) above as it would have been applied in the absence of
the customer's movement to the new service location.
   (D)   Any unpaid water charges at a service location shall be paid in full
before water service is restored to the property served by that service
location.
   (E)   Water Department clerks are granted the power to negotiate temporary,
reasonable suspensions of the exact application of the requirements of this
section to avoid unsafe or unfair results. Any negotiation must be reduced to
writing and include, at a minimum, the name of the customer and the property
affected, a reasonable schedule of payments stating the amounts and dates the
payments are due and must be signed by the customer and a water clerk. The
Alderman assigned to supervise the Water Department shall review the
negotiations of the clerks as needed to ensure fair and reasonable application
of this discretion granted to the clerks.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-9) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 08-09, passed 7-14-
2009; Ord. 09-11, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 11-15, passed 11-24-2015; Ord. 15-22,
passed 11-9-2022)
§ 54.18 HIGHWAY 37 N. WATER DISTRICT.
   The water rate for water sold by the City 37N water district is hereby
established as rate of $2.89 per 1,000 gallons.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-10) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 10-2002, passed 9-
10-2002)
§ 54.19 PITTSBURG RATES.
   The water rate for water sold by the city to Village of Pittsburg is hereby
established as $2.89 per 1,000 gallons.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-11) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 10-2002, passed 9-
10-2002)
CAPPING FEES
§ 54.30 CAPPING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The owner(s), owner’s agent or contractor, at least five days prior to the
demolition, wrecking or tearing down of any building or structure serviced by a
water line or a sewer line of the City Municipal Water Department or Sewer
Department, shall first apply for, obtain and sign a “capping permit” from, and
signed by, the City Clerk. The permit shall be kept at the demolition site in
the possession of the person or firm doing the demolition and shall be
displayed to city personnel on request.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-12) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.31 FEE TO CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall be paid a fee of $5 for the permit at the time of its
issuance.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-13) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.32 LOCATION OF PREMISES.
   The capping permit shall clearly identify the name and address of the owner
(s), the specific street address of the premises involved, and the name and
address of the person or firm doing the demolition, wrecking or tearing down.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-14) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.33 CAPPING REQUIRED.
   The person or firm doing the demolition, wrecking or tearing down and the
owner(s) of the premises, on the date demolition is commenced, shall properly
cap and secure the water line and the sewer line so as to avoid any leakage,
and shall also put in place at the point of capping a permanent identifying
marker which shall be and remain visible and which shall not be a hazard to
public safety.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-15) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.34 INSPECTION DESIGNATED.
   The City Clerk shall immediately after issuance of a capping permit provide
copies of the permit to the Water and to the Sewer Departments and the
Departments shall inspect the demolition site and make a record or entry on
compliance.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-16) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.35 NONCOMPLIANCE PENALTIES.
   Failure to comply with this capping requirement shall in addition to all
code violation fines and other fees make the person or firm doing the
demolition and the owner of the premises liable for all costs and expenses in
correcting the noncompliance. The cost and expense incurred by or in behalf of
the city shall also constitute a lien in favor of the city and against the real
estate involved.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-17) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 54.50 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement, applicable surcharges and local
capital cost charge composed of a debt service charge and a capital improvement
charge.
   (A)   The debt service charge is computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users. Through further
divisions, the monthly debt service charges can be computed.
   (B)   The capital improvement charge is levied on all users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the sewage treatment
works. The capital improvement is computed by apportioning the annual amount to
be accrued as a fixed charge per month.
   (C)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters for wastes having the following normal domestic concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 204 mg/l; and/or
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 240 mg/l.
   (D)   It shall consists of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement
and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all work categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by volume,
suspended solids and BOD;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended solids and
BOD;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per 1,000 gallons in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (E)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waste waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD 204 mg/l and SS 240 mg/l. The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters for all wastes which
exceed the 204 mg/l and 240 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS respectively.
Section 54.55 specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
   (F)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not
less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in
operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs.
   (G)   The users of wastewater treatment services will be notified annually,
in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-20) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.51 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
100 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Superintendent if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, and maintained by the person and owned by the city. Following
approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is
cancelled, without the consent of the Superintendent.
   (D)   All multi-unit buildings, residents, businesses or both constructed
after the date of this subchapter shall have a water meter installed for each
unit with the following exceptions: customary incidental home occupations
operating within a residence, hotels, motels, boarding houses, lodging houses
and other multi-unit buildings which do not contain a minimum of a lavatory and
water closet per unit.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-21) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.52 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   A debt service charge of $4.60 per user per month, to each user of
wastewater facility of the city is hereby established.
   (B)   A capital improvement charge will be levied on all users as a charge
of $0 per 1,000 gallons, or a fixed charge of $0 per month, to provide funds
for extension, improvement of reconstruction of the sewage treatment works.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-22) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.53 BASIC USER RATE.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a
basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the city. A minimum charge of $16.18 per month shall be applied
to all users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month.
The aforementioned minimum charges shall be effective starting the August,
2011, billing cycle.
   (B)   A basic user rate of $3.89 per 1,000 gallons shall be applied to all
users for water consumption in excess of 2,000 gallons per month.
   (C)   However, in the case of multi-unit buildings, residence, business or
both, the minimum rate shall be $16.18 per month plus any fraction thereof
above the minimum usage for each residence and business unit in such building
with the following exception of a:
      (1)   Physician, dentist, lawyer, architect, engineer, accountant,
insurance agent, customary incidental home occupations operating within their
residence, hotels, motels, boarding houses and lodging houses; and
      (2)   The multi-unit buildings, residences, businesses or both located at
the addresses in §
54.16.
   (D)   All non-metered residential users of the wastewater facilities shall
pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate to cover the costs of the
minimum accrual capital cost charge, the minimum service charge and the basic
user rate of $16.18. The flat rate charge will allow a maximum usage of 5,000
gallons per month. In the event the use of the wastewater facilities is
determined by the Superintendent to be in excess of 5,000 gallons per month,
the Superintendent may require such flat rate user to install metering devices
on the water supply to measure the amount of service supplied.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-23) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 14-97, passed 9-23-
1997; Ord. 04-07, passed 3-27-2007)
§ 54.54 SURCHARGE RATE.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as follows: per pound of
BOD: $0.21 per pound of SS: $0.19.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-24) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.55 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The concentration of wastes for computing surcharges shall be established by
waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as may be deemed
necessary by the Superintendent and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-25) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.56 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-x) CU + CS
   Where   CW = Amount of waste service charge per billing period.
      CD = Debt service charge (§
54.52).
      CC = Capital improvement charge.
      CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (§
54.53).
      Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period.
      X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (§
54.53).
      CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (§
54.53).
      CS = Amount of surcharge (§§
54.54 and
54.55).
(1999 Code, § 38-4-26) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.57 SEWER RATES FOR WHITE ASH AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The established rate to the municipality of White Ash for all waste
discharge to the public sewers shall be $2.33 per 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   The established rate to all users of the public sewers for all waste
discharge shall be $11.25 for zero to 2,000 gallons.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-27) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 03-07, passed 3-27-
2007; Ord. 21-19, passed 10-2-2019)
§ 54.58 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the Sewerage Account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart
from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the city and all of the sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the City Treasurer not more than ten days after the receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of the city”.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by this code and by state statute.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-28) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.59 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing date to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-29) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.60 NOTICE OF RATES.
   Each user will be notified by the city in conjunction with a regular bill,
of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable to
wastewater treatment services, including the financial information of §
54.59.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-30) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.61 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The I.E.P.A. or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the
city system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-31) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.62 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The rates and service charges established for user charges in this chapter
shall be effective as of August 1, 1989 and on bills to be rendered for the
next succeeding month being September, 1989 for monthly users.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-32) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
§ 54.63 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in this chapter, shall be made available to user within 30 days of
receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or
in computations there of shall be remedied by City Engineer within 30 days
after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(1999 Code, § 38-4-33) (Ord. 13-89, passed 7-11-1989)
CHAPTER 55: SEWER SYSTEMS
Section
Generally
   
55.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
55.015   Sewage on public or private property
   
55.016   Natural outlet discharge
   
55.017   Private system
   
55.018   Connection required
Private Sewage Disposal
   
55.030   Private system required
   
55.031   Private sewer system permit
   
55.032   Inspection of installation
   
55.033   Requirements of private system
   
55.034   Availability of public sewer
   
55.035   Operation of system
   
55.036   Additional requirements
   
55.037   Connection to public sewer
Building Sewers and Connections
   
55.050   Permit required
   
55.051   Unlawful discharges
   
55.052   Application for permit
   
55.053   Capacity of sewer facilities
   
55.054   Building sewer; costs; city indemnity
   
55.055   Independent building sewer required
   
55.056   Old building sewers
   
55.057   Construction of building sewer
   
55.058   Elevation
   
55.059   Downspouts
   
55.060   Plumbing Code requirements
   
55.061   Notification for inspection
   
55.062   Barricades
Use of Public Sewers
   
55.075   Discharge of storm water
   
55.076   Storm sewers
   
55.077   Prohibited discharges
   
55.078   Prohibited discharges by approval
   
55.079   Action by Superintendent
   
55.080   Grease and oil interceptors
   
55.081   Facility maintenance
   
55.082   Industrial control manhole
   
55.083   Laboratory analyses
   
55.084   Testing requirements
   
55.085   Special arrangements
Protection of Sewage Work from Damage
   
55.100   Destroying equipment
Power and Authority of Inspectors
   
55.115   Inspection and testing
   
55.116   Observation of safety rules
   
55.117   Private property inspections
 
   
55.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERALLY
§ 55.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE.
      (1)   MAY. Permissible.
      (2)   SHALL. Mandatory.
   GOVERNMENT, FEDERAL.
      (1)   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
      (2)   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq.) as amended.
      (3)   FEDERAL GRANT. The United States Government participation in the
financing of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II -
Grants for Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing
regulations.
   GOVERNMENT, LOCAL.
      (1)   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department.
      (2)   CITY. The City of Johnston City.
   GOVERNMENT, STATE.
      (1)   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
      (2)   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, 30 ILCS
405/1 et seq.
      (3)   STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of the State.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters)
outside the inner face of the building wall.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (3)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      (4)   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by others.
      (5)   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat
if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the
collection system.
      (6)   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
food.
      (7)   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. An solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
      (8)   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly
owned treatment works that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving waste;
         (c)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      (9)   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it
is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
      (10)   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      (11)   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of
industrial or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population
equivalent is 100 gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
      (12)   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
      (13)   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely.
      (14)   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction
of the city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary
even though those sewers may not have been constructed with city funds.
      (15)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes
or a combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      (16)   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste
liquids, including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
      (17)   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation and pumping of sewage.
      (18)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      (19)   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is
drained into the sewers.
   TREATMENT.
      (1)   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and
structures for treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes use
as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   TYPES OF CHARGES.
      (1)   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the
public sewer system.
      (2)   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve,
extend or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      (3)   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding.
      (4)   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the
operation, maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital
improvement costs.
      (5)   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
      (6)   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      (7)   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and
debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater
in strength than the concentration values established in this chapter.
      (8)   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection
system and/or treatment works will be operated.
      (9)   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the
cost of operation, maintenance and replacement.
      (10)   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied
on all users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed
as outlined in this chapter and shall consist of the total or the basic user
charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   USER TYPES.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
      (2)   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which
industrial wastes are discharged, where feasible, the manhole shall have an
interior drop. The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the
city representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Includes schools, churches, penal institutions
and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartment, permanent multi-family dwellings.
      (5)   USER CLASS. The type of user “residential, institutional/
governmental, commercial” or “industrial” as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS.
      (1)   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standards laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      (2)   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      (3)   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that have shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
      (4)   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with “wastewater”.
      (5)   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of low exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      (6)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
suspended solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
I.E.P.A. Division of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      (7)   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      (8)   WASTEWATER.
         (a)   The spent water of a community.
         (b)   From this standpoint of course, it may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and storm water that may be present.
      (9)   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. The Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS.
      (1)   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or
other body of surface or groundwater.
      (2)   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-1)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 55.015 SEWAGE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-3) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.016 NATURAL OUTLET DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted water,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-4) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.017 PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-5) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.018 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 300 feet (91.5 meters) of the property line.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-6)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 55.030 PRIVATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
55.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-10)
§ 55.031 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM PERMIT.
    Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system,
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection
fee of $500 shall be paid to the Superintendent at the time the application is
filed. See
Appendix A of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-11) (Ord. 01-23, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 55.032 INSPECTION OF INSTALLATION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the
receipt of written notice by the Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-12)
§ 55.033 REQUIREMENTS OF PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq., the
State Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 7,500 square feet (667 meters). No septic tank
or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-13)
§ 55.034 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
55.018, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-14)
§ 55.035 OPERATION OF SYSTEM.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-15)
§ 55.036 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Franklin-Williamson
Bi-County Health Department.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-16)
§ 55.037 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-17) (Ord. 16-89, passed 7-11-1989)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 55.050 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-21) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.051 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-22) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.052 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)    There shall be two classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      (1)   For residential, wastewater service; and
      (2)   For commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater
service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make applications
on a special form furnished by the Sewer Department of the city. See
Appendix A of this chapter.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $500 for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-23) (Ord. 12-2002, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 01-23, passed 1-
10-2023)
§ 55.053 CAPACITY OF SEWER FACILITIES.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-24)
§ 55.054 BUILDING SEWER; COSTS; CITY INDEMNITY.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   In addition thereto the owner shall indemnify and hold the city
harmless from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer and the maintenance of such sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-25)
§ 55.055 INDEPENDENT BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-26)
§ 55.056 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-27)
§ 55.057 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of Code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in the state shall apply.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-28)
§ 55.058 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
55.051, and discharged to the building sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-29)
§ 55.059 DOWNSPOUTS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-30)
§ 55.060 PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in the state. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city before installation.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-31)
§ 55.061 NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-32)
§ 55.062 BARRICADES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-33)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 55.075 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, ground water roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-36) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.076 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-37)
§ 55.077 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-38) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.078 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES BY APPROVAL.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have and adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies.
   (C)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste odor
producing substances, in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time, except as permitted by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 2.0 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the Superintendent in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-39) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.079 ACTION BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
55.078, and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment
provided in 40 CRF 403 and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of
the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates for discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
55.085.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, articles and laws.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-40)
§ 55.080 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-41)
§ 55.081 FACILITY MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-42)
§ 55.082 INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safety located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-43)
§ 55.083 LABORATORY ANALYSES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-44)
§ 55.084 TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of I.E.P.A. Division of Laboratories Manual
of Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are
determined from periodic grab samples.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-45)
§ 55.085 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance
with this chapter, hereof, by the industrial concern provided such payments are
in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-46)
PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE
§ 55.100 DESTROYING EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-50) Penalty, see §
55.999
POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 55.115 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-52)
§ 55.116 OBSERVATION OF SAFETY RULES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
55.115, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operating, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as
required in §
55.083.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-53)
§ 55.117 PRIVATE PROPERTY INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-54)
§ 55.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty described.
      (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §
55.100 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   The city may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of
any violation of any provision of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-56)
   (B)   Continued violation. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in division (A) above, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-57)
   (C)   Liable to city. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall become liable to the city by reasons of such violation.
(1999 Code, § 38-5-58)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
UTILITY MAIN EXTENSION CONTRACT
   AGREEMENT made and entered into this ________ day of __________________, by
and between the Utility System of the City of Johnston City, Illinois,
hereinafter called the “Utility Department” and______________________________,
hereinafter called the “Depositor”.
   FIRST:      That the Utility Department contracts and agrees to have
installed by contract in accordance with its rules, utility mains as shown on
the plat thereof, and the specifications are attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
   SECOND:   Bids having been taken and the lowest responsible bid having been
in the amount of $______, the Depositor agrees to deposit and does deposit
herewith the cost thereof.
      (A)   The lowest responsible bid $________.
      (B)   Engineering and Inspection Charge $_________.
      (C)   TOTAL: $________________.
   THIRD:    Final costs to be adjusted up or down according to completed job
cost.
   FOURTH:   The ownership of the utility mains laid herein shall be at all
times in the Utility Department, its successors and assigns.
   FIFTH:      This Agreement shall be valid and binding on the Utility
Department only when signed by the Mayor and Clerk.
   SIXTH:      This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, executors,
administrators, successors or assigns of the respective parties.
   EXECUTED in duplicate by the parties hereto on the date first above written.
   UTILITY DEPARTMENT
   CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS
                               BY:   ___________________________
                                 MAYOR
ATTEST:
______________________________      _____________________________
CITY CLERK               APPLICANT/DEPOSITOR
WITNESSES:
_________________________________
_________________________________
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION
   The undersigned, being the _____________(owner, owner’s agent)___________ of
the property located at _______(Number) (Street)__________ does hereby request
a permit to install and connect a building sewer to serve the ___________
(residence, commercial building, etc.)________________ at said location.
1. The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed building
sewer:
   NUMBER   FIXTURE         NUMBER   FIXTURE
   ________   Kitchen Sinks         ________   Water Closets
   ________   Lavatories         ________   Bathtubs
   ________   Laundry Tub         ________   Showers
   ________   Urinals            ________   Garbage Grinders
Specify Other Fixtures: ________________________________________
2. The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures is ________.
3. The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed
work is _____________
______________________________________________________________________.
4. Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer are attached
hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
IN CONSIDERATION OF THE GRANTING OF THIS PERMIT, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1. To accept and abide by all provisions of the City Code, and of all other
pertinent ordinances and codes that may be adopted in the future.
2. To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the City.
3. To notify the City when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer, but before any portion of the work is covered.
DATE: _________, 20____               SIGNED: ________________________
                              (APPLICANT)
                           _____________________________________
                              (ADDRESS OF APPLICANT)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
         (CERTIFICATION BY CITY TREASURER)
$________ (Inspection Fee Paid)         DATE:________, 20_____
$________ (Connection Fee Paid)         SIGNED:________________________________
                           (CITY TREASURER)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
         (APPLICATION APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED)
DATE: _________, 20____                  SIGNED:_________________________
                                 (CITY CLERK)
INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
   The undersigned, being the ____________(owner, owner’s
agent)___________________of the property located at ___________(Number)___
(Street) _____________________ does hereby request a permit to ____(install,
use)_________ an industrial sewer connection serving the _____________, which
company is engaged in ___________________________________ at said location.
1. A plan of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now existing
is attached hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
2. Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit “B”.
3. A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced or
expected to be produced at said property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge and
representative analyses is attached hereunto as Exhibit “C”.
4. The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work covered
by this permit is ____
______________________________________________________________________.
IN CONSIDERATION OF THE GRANTING OF THIS PERMIT, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1. To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use of
the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be requested by the
City.
2. To accept and abide by all provisions of the City Code, and of all other
pertinent ordinances or codes that may be adopted in the future.
3. To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities, as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the City.
4. To cooperate at all times with the City and its representative(s) in their
inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial wastes, and any facilities
provided for pretreatment.
5. To notify the City immediately in the event of any accident, negligence, or
other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers of any wastes or
process waters not covered by this permit
DATE: _____________, 20_____                  SIGNED:_______________________
                                                (APPLICANT)
                                       ___________________________________
                                       (ADDRESS OF APPLICANT)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
         (CERTIFICATION BY CITY TREASURER)
$_________   (Inspection Fee Paid)            DATE: __________________,
20______.
$_________ (Connection Fee Paid)            SIGNED:___________________________
                              (CITY TREASURER)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------
         (APPLICATION APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED)
DATE: _____________, 20_____            SIGNED: ______________________
                              (CITY CLERK)
         APPLICATION FOR SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION
   The undersigned, representing himself as owner of the property located at
___________________
_________________________________, hereby makes application for Sanitary
Sewerage Service for said property, and in consideration of the furnishing of
said service covenants and agrees as follows:
1. I agree to abide by all rules and regulations as specified in and by the
ordinances of the City now in effect or ordinances enacted and passed from time
to time providing for the regulation of the sanitary sewer system or specifying
fees and rates to be charged for connection and sanitary sewer service
furnished by the City. It is further acknowledged and agreed that the
undersigned, his heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns shall
pay all charges for connection fees and sewer usage which shall become due as
the result of the connecting of the sewerage mains and the furnishing of
sanitary sewerage service to the above property, and that all such charges and
fees for sanitary sewerage service rendered to the property, together with
penalties, if any, and the costs of collection are to be considered and become
a charge against the property, the lien so created to be enforced in accordance
with the ordinances of the City.
2. All bills for the aforesaid charges are payable within ten (10) days
following the receipt of said bill and if not paid, are subject to a ten
percent (10%) penalty.
3. Each and all of the agreements and covenants herein contained shall run with
the real estate above described whose present owner is signatory to this
application.
4. I understand that after making this application, I am to await installation
permit and instructions therewith.
5. SERVICE CONNECTION FEE: $______ is enclosed herewith, payable to the City.
6. Permission is hereby granted to the City and its authorized representatives
at any reasonable time to enter the premises of the applicant and any portion
thereof for the purposes of inspecting all connections appurtenant to the
sewerage outlets, pipes and mains.
__________________________               ________________________________________________
(APPLICANT’S SIGNATURE)               (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
__________________________________________         ___________________________________
(OWNER’S SIGNATURE, IF NOT APPLICANT)         (CITY, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
                           ___________________________________
                           (TELEPHONE NUMBER)   (DATE)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
                           (
      MAIL BILLS TO:                (____________________________________
                           (NAME)
Do not fill in the               
spaces to the right                     
(_________________________________________
if the information                     (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
is the same as the                     
(_________________________________________
applicant above.                     (_________________________________________
                           (CITY, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
                              RECEIPT
   Receipt is hereby acknowledged of the executed Application for Sanitary
Sewer Service Connection from the person and for the property indicated below.
   This receipt does not authorize service connection is made, inspection and
approval of the customer service line by an authorized representative of the
City is required, and approval of such connection and issuance of a Certificate
of Inspection and Approval and Permit is conditioned upon compliance with all
the Ordinances, Codes, Rules and Regulations of the City.
NOTE:
1. In the event the location of the sewer service connection is unknown, the
Superintendent is to be contacted.
2. This office is to be notified the day before the work is to be done so that
inspection may be arranged in accordance with specifications furnished. For
example, if you desire inspection on Tuesday, contact us on Monday. If you
desire inspection on Monday, contact us on Friday, etc.
3. If the sewer line is deep enough to drain your basement, if you have one,
then the wastes from the basement as well as the other floor(s) of the property
must go into the sanitary sewers. Downspout and surface drainage are prohibited
inasmuch as this is not a storm sewer system.
WARNING!   In order to coordinate our inspections, we must be advised a day in
advance before the work is done. The inspection must be made before the trench
is backfilled. If trench is backfilled before the inspection is made, it will
have to be reopened to permit inspection.
NO.   _____________________                  CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
DATE:   _____________________                  COUNTY OF WILLIAMSON
ADDRESS: __________________
OWNER(S): _________________
_____________________________
CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION, APPROVAL AND PERMIT
   IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED THAT inspection has been made of the individually-
owned sewer mains and sanitary service connection for the property described
below, and said installation is hereby approved as in compliance with the
Specifications, Rules and Regulations established by the Revised Code (Chapters
51 through 55) of this Municipality.
   Permission is hereby granted to complete the construction of said
individually-owned sewer main to the City Sanitary Sewerage System and to
utilize the same for waste disposal in compliance at all times, with the
Revised Code of this City.
NO. _____________________________
ADDRESS: __________________________________________________________________
TYPE OF CONNECTION:
         ____________   Single-Family Residence
         ____________   Multiple dwelling or trailer court
         ____________   Commercial
         ____________   Industrial
         ____________   Institutional
         ____________   Governmental
INSTALLATION BY: __________________________________________
   THE SERVICE IS IN OPERATION AS OF THIS _____ DAY OF _______________, 20___.
                                       CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
                                       COUNTY OF WILLIAMSON
                                       SIGNED: ___________________________
APPLICATION FOR WATER SYSTEM SERVICE CONNECTION
   The undersigned, representing himself as owner of the property located at
___________________
________________________ hereby makes application for connection to the Water
System of the City for said property, and in consideration of the furnishing of
said service covenants and agrees as follows:
1.   I agree to abide by all rules and regulations as specified in and by the
ordinances of the City now in effect or enacted and passed from time to time
providing for the regulation of service furnished by the City, it is further
acknowledged and agreed that the undersigned, his heirs, executors,
administrators, successors and assigns shall pay all charges for connection
fees and water usage which shall become due as the result of the connecting of
the water mains and the furnishing of water service to the above property, and
that all such charges and fees for water service rendered to the property,
together with penalties, if any, and the costs of collection are to be
considered and become a charge against the property, the lien so created to be
enforced in accordance with the ordinances of the City.
2.   All bills for the aforesaid charges are payable within fifteen (15) days
following the receipt of said bill and if not paid, are subject to a ten
percent (10%) penalty.
3.   Each and all of the agreements and covenants herein contained shall run
with the real estate above described whose present owner is signatory to this
application.
4.   I understand that after making this application, I am to await
installation permit and instructions therewith.
5.   SERVICE CONNECTION FEE: $__________is enclosed herewith, payable to the
City.
6.   Permission is hereby granted to the City and its authorized
representatives at any reasonable time to enter the premises of the applicant
and any portion thereof for the purposes of inspecting all connections
appurtenant to the Water System.
CONNECTION MUST BE INSPECTED BEFORE BACKFILLING:
SIGNATURE: ____________________         _______________________________________
                  ____________________________________________________________
                  (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
                  ____________________________________________________________
                  (CITY, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
                  ____________________________________________________________
                  (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (DATE)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
Do not fill in the                        (__________________________________
spaces to the right                        (__________________________________
if the information                        (NAME)
is the same as the         MAIL BILLS TO:         
(__________________________________
applicant above.                        (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
                              (__________________________________
                              (__________________________________
                              (CITY, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
UTILITY SHUTOFF HEARING NOTICE
   This notice is being sent to you pursuant to the provisions of CHAPTERS 51
through 55 OF THE REVISED CODE OF ORDINANCES as adopted by the corporate
authorities.
CUSTOMER’S NAME:___________________________
ADDRESS:
_________________________________________________________________________
TOTAL AMOUNT OF BILL:   $________ WATER
                        $_________ SEWER
                        $_________ OTHER
                                    SUB-TOTAL:   $_________
                                    PENALTY:      $_________
                                    TOTAL DUE:   $_________
DATE OF HEARING   ____________________
TIME OF HEARING   ____________________
LOCATION OF HEARING
____________________________________________________________
___________________________________________
PHONE: ____________________
   If the consumer/customer fails to appear at the hearing, the applicable
utility services shall be terminated [shut off] without further proceedings.
   If payment for the charges and fees is received prior to the date of the
hearing, you may disregard this hearing notice.
   The Mayor and City Clerk, or their designated representative(s), shall
preside at the hearing.
                                    __________________________________
                                    CITY CLERK
   DATED THIS ______ DAY OF_______________, 20______.
   NOTE: After services have been shut off there will be a reconnection fee of
$__________.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
      
72.   LANE USAGE, RIGHT-OF-WAY, ROAD USE, AND RECKLESS DRIVING
      
73.   SPEEDING, ACCIDENTS, AND TRANSPORTING ALCOHOL
      
74.   PARKING RULES
      
75.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
76.   SNOW ROUTES
      
77.   GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
      
78.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
79.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   State vehicle code; definitions adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to traffic regulations
   
70.03   Obedience to police officers
   
70.04   Obedience to fire department
   
70.05   Public officers and employees exceptions
   
70.06   Riding bicycles, animals, and animal drawn vehicles
   
70.07   Vehicle equipment generally
   
70.08   Vehicle lights
   
70.09   Vehicle signal lamps and signal devices
   
70.10   Vehicle mirrors
   
70.11   Vehicle windshields
   
70.12   Vehicle horns
   
70.13   Vehicle mufflers
   
70.14   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE; DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   The words and phrases used in this title shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them as passed, approved, and amended by the Illinois
State General Assembly in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.,
except when the context otherwise requires, and except where another definition
set forth in another section of this title and applicable to that section or a
designated part thereof is applicable.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this title.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, fireman, or uniformed adult school crossing
guard invested by law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 OBEDIENCE TO FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The fire department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire, or where the fire department has responded to
an emergency call, for so long as the fire department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the police department.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers
of vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned
or operated by the United States, this state, or any county, city, town,
district, or any other political subdivision of the state, except as otherwise
provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as set forth
in this title with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Responding to emergency. The driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, when in the pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law, or when responding to, but not upon returning
from, a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but
subject to the conditions herein stated. The driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as not to endanger life or
property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   Proper signals of emergency. The exceptions herein granted to an
authorized emergency vehicle, other than a police vehicle, shall apply only
when the vehicle is making use of either an audible signal when in motion, or
visual signals meeting the requirements set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Due regard for safety. The foregoing provisions do not relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due
regard for the safety of all persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver
from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of
others.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 RIDING BICYCLES, ANIMALS, AND ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle, an animal, or driving an animal drawn vehicle
upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all
of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except those
provisions which by their very nature can have no application.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT GENERALLY.
    It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to cause
or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway, any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or equipment as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 VEHICLE LIGHTS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles shall exhibit at least two lighted headlamps, with at
least one on each side of the front of the vehicle, showing white lights or
lights of a yellow or amber tint, during the period from a half hour after
sunset to a half hour before sunrise; at times when rain, snow, fog, or other
atmospheric conditions require the use of windshield wipers; and at any other
times when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions,
persons and vehicles on the highway are not clearly discernible at a distance
of 1,000 feet. Parking lamps may be used in addition to, but not in lieu of,
such headlamps. Every motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer shall also exhibit
at least two lighted lamps, commonly known as tail lamps, which shall be
mounted on the left rear and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw a red
light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse direction, except that a
truck tractor or road tractor manufactured before January 1, 1968, and all
motorcycles need to be equipped with only one such tail lamp.
   (B)   Motorcycles. When operated upon any highway or street in this city,
every motorcycle shall at all times exhibit at least one lighted lamp, showing
a white light visible for at least 500 feet in the direction the motorcycle is
proceeding.
   (C)   Visibility of license plates. Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp
shall be so construed and placed as to illuminate with a white light a rear
registration plate when required, and render it clearly legible from a distance
of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate
lamp or lamps for illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as
to be lighted whenever the headlamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 VEHICLE SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Brake lights required; antique vehicle provisions. Every vehicle,
other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique plate, operated in this
state shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of the vehicle
which shall display a red or amber light visible from a distance of not less
than 500 feet to the rear in normal sunlight, which shall be actuated upon
application of the service (foot) brake, and which may but need not be
incorporated with other rear lamps. During times when lighted lamps are not
required, an antique vehicle may be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the
rear of such vehicle of the same type originally installed by the manufacturer
as original equipment and in working order. However, at all other times, such
antique vehicle must be equipped with stop lamps meeting the requirements of
this section.
   (B)   Turn signals required; antique vehicle provisions. Every motor
vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique plate, shall be
equipped with an electric turn signal device which shall indicate the intention
of the driver to turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing
lights located at, and showing to, the front and rear of the vehicle on the
side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The lamps showing to
the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable, and, when signaling, shall emit a white or amber light, or any
shade of light between white and amber. The lamps showing to the rear shall be
mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and,
when signaling, shall emit a red or amber light. An antique vehicle shall be
equipped with a turn signal device of the same type originally installed by the
manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   (C)   Trailer and semitrailer turn signals. Every trailer and semitrailer
shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which indicates the
intention of the driver in the power unit to turn to the right or to the left
in the form of a flashing red or amber light located at the rear of the vehicle
on the side toward which the turn is to be made, and mounted on the same level
and as widely spaced laterally as practicable.
   (D)   Distance visible. Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of
not less than 300 feet in normal sunlight.
   (E)   Exceptions to turn signals. Motorcycles and motor driven cycles need
not be equipped with electric turn signals. Antique vehicles need not be
equipped with turn signals unless such were installed by the manufacturer as
original equipment.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.10 VEHICLE MIRRORS.
   Every motor vehicle operated singly or when towing another vehicle, shall be
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such motor vehicle.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 VEHICLE WINDSHIELDS.
   (A)   Certain window applications prohibited. No person shall drive a motor
vehicle with any sign, poster, window application, reflective material, non-
reflective material, or tinted film upon the front windshield. A non-reflective
tinted film may be used along the uppermost portion of the windshield if such
material does not extend more than six inches down from the top of the
windshield. Nothing in this section shall create a cause of action on behalf of
a buyer against a dealer or manufacturer who sells a motor vehicle with a
window which is in violation of this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. No window treatment or tinting shall be applied to the
windows immediately adjacent to each side of the driver, except the following.
      (1)   On vehicles where none of the windows to the rear of the driver's
seat are treated in a manner that allows less than 30% light transmittance, a
non-reflective tinted film that allows at least 50% light transmittance, with a
5% variance observed by any law enforcement official metering the light
transmittance, may be used on the vehicle windows immediately adjacent to each
side of the driver.
      (2)   On vehicles where none of the windows to the rear of the driver's
seat are treated in a manner that allows less than 35% light transmittance, a
non-reflective tinted film that allows at least 35% light transmittance, with a
5% variance observed by any law enforcement official metering the light
transmittance, may be used on the vehicle windows immediately adjacent to each
side of the driver.
      (3)   On vehicles where a non-reflective smoked or tinted glass that was
originally installed by the manufacturer on the windows to the rear of the
driver's seat, a non-reflective tint that allows at least 50% light
transmittance, with a 5% variance observed by a law enforcement official
metering the light transmittance, may be used on the vehicle windows
immediately adjacent to each side of the driver.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to window treatment, including, but
not limited to, a window application, non-reflective material, or tinted film,
applied or affixed to a motor vehicle for which distinctive license plates or
license plate stickers have been issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-412(k) and is
used in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/12-503(g).
   (C)   Suspended objects prohibited. No person shall drive a motor vehicle
with any objects placed or suspended between the driver and the front
windshield, rear window, side wings or side windows immediately adjacent to
each side of the driver which materially obstructs the driver's view.
   (D)   Windshield wipers. Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles, shall be
equipped with a device, controlled by the driver, for cleaning rain, snow,
moisture, or other obstruction from the windshield; and no person shall drive a
motor vehicle with snow, ice, moisture or other material on any of the windows
or mirrors, which materially obstructs the driver's clear view of the highway.
   (E)   Condition of windows; rearview mirrors. No person shall drive a motor
vehicle when the windshield, side, or rear windows are in such defective
condition or repair as to materially impair the driver's view to the front,
side, or rear. A vehicle equipped with a side mirror on each side of the
vehicle which are in conformance with this section will be deemed to be in
compliance in the event the rear window of the vehicle is materially obscured.
   (F)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Motor vehicles manufactured prior to January 1, 1982; or
         (b)   To those motor vehicles properly registered in another
jurisdiction.
      (2)   (a)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to any motor
vehicle:
            1.   That is owned and operated by a person afflicted with or
suffering from a medical illness, ailment, or disease which would require that
person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun; or
            2.   That is used in transporting a person when such person resides
at the same address as the registered owner of the vehicle and such person is
afflicted with or suffering from a medical illness or disease which would
require such person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun.
         (b)   It must be certified by a physician licensed to practice
medicine in Illinois that such person owning and operating, or being
transported in a motor vehicle is afflicted with or suffers from such illness,
ailment, or disease, and such certification must be carried in the motor
vehicle at all times. The certification shall be legible and shall contain the
date of issuance, the name, address, and signature of the attending physician,
and the name, address, and medical condition of the person requiring exemption.
The information on the certificate must remain current and shall be renewed
annually by the attending physician.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to motor vehicle
stickers or other certificates issued by state or local authorities which are
required to be displayed upon motor vehicle windows to evidence compliance with
requirements concerning motor vehicles.
   (G)   Older vehicle restrictions. Those motor vehicles exempted under
division (F)(1)(a) of this section shall not cause their windows to be treated
as described in division (A) of this section after January 1, 1993.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 VEHICLE HORNS.
   (A)   Audible distance; unlawful noise. Every motor vehicle when operated
upon a highway or street shall be equipped with a horn in good working order
and capable of emitting a sound audible under normal conditions for a distance
of not less than 200 feet, but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonable loud or harsh sound or whistle.
   (B)   Exception. No vehicle, other than an authorized emergency vehicle,
shall be equipped with any siren, whistle, or bell.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 VEHICLE MUFFLERS.
   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the streets or alleys of this
city shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust system
in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive or
unusual noise. No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a
cutout, bypass, or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle,
and such original muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Required and optional lights. Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime,
shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and a red reflector
on the rear, of a type approved by the Illinois Vehicle Code which shall be
visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Brakes required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which
will adequately control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Unless specifically provided otherwise, any person who violates any
provision of this title shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25, nor
more than $750.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
71.02   Obedience to train signals
   
71.03   Electronic traffic signals
   
71.04   Pedestrian control signals
   
71.05   Flashing control signals
   
71.06   Unauthorized signs, signals, and advertising
   
71.07   Interference with traffic control devices
   
71.08   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
71.09   Unlawful possession of signs and markers
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto, placed or held in accordance with
the provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in this title.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic control device.
   (C)   No provision of this title for which official traffic control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective although no devices are erected or in
place.
   (D)   Whenever an official traffic control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this title and
purports to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such device, such
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this title,
unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic control signal on which
no signal facing such vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering the
intersection in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a stop
sign.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Maintain distance from tracks. Whenever any person driving a vehicle
approaches a railroad grade crossing, such person must exercise due care and
caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of
danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver
shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail of
the railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing
requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a flagman gives or continues to give
a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching a highway crossing emits a warning
signal and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing; or
      (5)   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate hazard
is obvious.
   (B)   Respect barriers or gates. No person shall drive any vehicle through,
around, or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such
gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad crossings. The driver of
any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a railroad track or tracks
at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and look for the approach of a
train, and shall not proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any “second division vehicle” (as defined in the Illinois Vehicle
Code) carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any school bus carrying a school child; and
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as cargo or part of cargo "hazardous material" as
defined in the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. After stopping as
required in this section, the driver shall proceed only in a gear not requiring
a change of gears during the crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears
while crossing the track or tracks.
   (D)   Exception. This section shall not apply at any railroad grade crossing
where traffic is controlled by a police officer or flag person.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of any part of this section shall result in a
minimum fine of $500 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the
prosecution of such violation.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 71.03 ELECTRONIC TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal or yellow
arrow signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being
terminated, or that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
Vehicles should immediately slow down and make every reasonable attempt to stop
at a clearly marked stop line, or before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow signal or yellow arrow
signal, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as provided in
§
71.04 of this chapter, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to
cross the roadway before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall
then start to cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow, and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by the red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn, vehicular
traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street onto a one-way street, after
stopping as required by divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section. After
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal as
provided in §
71.04 of this chapter, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow
signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (D)   Signal placement other than at intersections. In the event an official
traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an
intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to
provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be at a traffic sign or a marking on the pavement indicating where the
stop shall be made or, in the absence of such sign or marking, the stop shall
be made at the signal.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words "walk" or
"don't walk," or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised
palm are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing such signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   Don't walk or upraised palm symbol. No pedestrian shall start to cross
the roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partly
completed his crossing on the walk signal or walking person symbol shall
proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the "don't walk" signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 FLASHING CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow sign is used in conjunction
with a traffic control device, it should require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red light is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then a point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before
entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow light is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (C)   Exception. This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be
governed by §
71.02.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Imitation of signs. No person shall place, maintain, or display upon
or in view of any highway, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be, or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the movement
of traffic or the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   Advertising upon. No person may place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Nuisance declared. Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the city is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device, any
railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully damage any public highway,
street, bridge, or culvert, or to willfully damage or remove any sign,
signpost, or structure upon, or used or constructed in connection with any
public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for protection or
regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual, improper, or
unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving, or use of any
vehicle thereon, or by the willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF SIGNS AND MARKERS.
   The Illinois Department of Transportation and the city, with reference to
traffic control signs, signals, or markers owned by the Department or city, are
authorized to indicate the ownership of the signs, signals, or markers on the
back of such devices in letters not less than three-eighths of an inch or more
than three-fourths of an inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or
other permanent means, and, except for employees of the Department or city,
police officers, contractors, and their employees engaged in a construction
contract approved by the Department or city, it is unlawful for any person to
possess such sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: LANE USAGE, RIGHT-OF-WAY, ROAD USE, AND RECKLESS DRIVING
Section
   
72.01   Stop and yield signs
   
72.02   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
72.03   Turning
   
72.04   U-turns
   
72.05   Turn signal required
   
72.06   Stop or yield intersections
   
72.07   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.08   Approaching crosswalks
   
72.09   Merging traffic
   
72.10   Entering highway from private road or driveway
   
72.11   Approaching emergency vehicles
   
72.12   Approaching highway construction
   
72.13   Driving on right side of roadway
   
72.14   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite direction
   
72.15   Overtaking on left
   
72.16   Overtaking on right
   
72.17   No passing zones
   
72.18   One-way roadways
   
72.19   Following too closely
§ 72.01 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop intersections. Except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point
nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   Yield intersections. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk, at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersection roadway.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all other rules consistent
herewith shall apply.
   (A)   Travel within lanes. A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as
practicable entirely within a single lane, and shall not be moved from such
lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made
safely.
   (B)   Use of turn lanes. Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes
and provides for two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in
the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in
the same direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe
distance, or in preparation for making a left turn, or where such center lane
is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction
that the vehicle is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official
traffic control devices.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 TURNING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
   (C)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane; and
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway, or when preparing for or making
a u-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 TURN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Conditions necessary to commence turning. No person shall turn a
vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the
roadway as required in §
72.03 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person may turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Left or right hand turns. A signal or intention to turn right or left
when required must be given continuously, not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district,
and such signal must be given continuously not less than the last 200 feet
traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business or residence
district.
   (C)   Stopping or decreasing speed. No person may stop or suddenly decrease
the speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner
provided in this section to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear
when there is opportunity to give such a signal.
   (D)   Lane changes; hazard lights. Electric turn signal devices must be used
to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, or start from a parallel parked
position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled
vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or "do pass" signal to operators of other
vehicles approaching from the rear. However, such signal devices may be flashed
simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring usual care in approaching, overtaking, and
passing.
   (E)   Method of signaling. Any stop or turn signal when required herein
shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn
signal device.
   (F)   Hand signals. All signals herein required, given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
such signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersections. Except when directed to proceed by a police
officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
roadway or which is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when the driver is moving across or within the
intersection, but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a
safe interval occurs.
   (B)   Yield intersections. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign
shall, in obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the
right- of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such
driver is moving across or within the intersection.
   (C)   Collision prima facie evidence. If a driver is involved in a collision
at an intersection or interferes with the movement of other vehicles after
driving past a yield right-of-way sign, such collision or interference shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Yield right-of-way. When two vehicles approach or enter an
intersection from different roadways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left must yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right.
   (B)   T-intersections. The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection
of a highway from a highway which terminates at the intersection, not otherwise
regulated by this title or controlled by traffic control signs or signals,
shall stop, yield, and grant the privilege of immediate use of the intersection
to another vehicle which has entered the intersection from the non-terminating
highway or is approaching the intersection on a non-terminating highway in such
proximity as to constitute a hazard, and after stopping may proceed when the
driver may safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with
the traffic using the non-terminating highway.
   (C)   Turning left. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left
within an intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which
is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so
yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 APPROACHING CROSSWALKS.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   At an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging traffic, the
driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to adjust his
vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with another
vehicle.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving into the sidewalk
area extending across such alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in
the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at a point nearest the street
to be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon, and
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid
collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of- way to all
vehicles approaching on such roadway.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 APPROACHING EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Yield; move to right; stop. Upon the immediate approach of an
authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible and visual signals meeting
the requirements of this title, or a police vehicle properly and lawfully
making use of an audible or visual signal, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way, and shall immediately drive to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the
highway clear of any intersection, and shall, if necessary to permit the safe
passage of the emergency vehicle, stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   Emergency vehicle responsibility. This section shall not operate to
relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
   (C)   Approaching an emergency vehicle.
      (1)   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle, when
the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights, or amber or yellow
warning lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall:
         (a)   Proceeding with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a
lane change into a lane not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency
vehicle, if possible, with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a
highway having at least four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in
the same direction as the approaching vehicle; or
         (b)   Proceeding with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle,
maintaining a safe speed for road conditions, if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
      (2)   As used in this division, AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE includes any
vehicle authorized by law to be equipped with oscillating, rotating, or
flashing lights under 625 ILCS 5/12-215, while the owner or operator of the
vehicle is engaged in his or her official duties.
   (D)   Violation; penalty. A violation of any part of this section shall
result in a minimum fine of $250 in addition to any costs or charges connected
with the prosecution of such violation. Any such violation shall be a mandatory
conviction, with no disposition of supervision.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 72.12 APPROACHING HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Signaled work zone. The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way to any authorized vehicle or pedestrian actually engaged in work upon a
highway within any highway construction or maintenance area indicated by
official traffic control devices.
   (B)   Signaled work vehicles. The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way to any authorized vehicle obviously and actually engaged in work upon a
highway whenever the vehicle engaged in construction or maintenance work
displays flashing lights.
   (C)   Flagger. The driver of a vehicle shall stop if signaled to do so by a
flagger or a traffic control signal and remain in such position until signaled
to proceed.
   (D)   Violation; penalty. A violation of any part of this section shall
result in a minimum fine of $250 in addition to any costs or charges connected
with the prosecution of such violation. Any such violation shall be a mandatory
conviction, with no disposition of supervision.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 72.13 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Vehicles hold to right; exception. Upon all roadways of sufficient
width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway, except as
follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon
the unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute
an immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; and
      (5)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Overtaking and passing. Upon all roadways a vehicle proceeding at less
than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions
then existing shall be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or
as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except
when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Turning; obedience to traffic control devices. Upon any roadway having
four or more lanes for moving traffic and providing for two-way movement of
traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the left of the centerline of the
roadway, except when authorized by official traffic control devices designating
certain lanes to the left side of the center of the roadway for use by traffic
not otherwise permitted to use such lanes, or except as permitted under
division (A)(2) of this section. However, this division shall not be construed
as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline in making a left turn into or
from an alley, private road, or driveway.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one lane of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 OVERTAKING ON LEFT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this title and unless such
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
   (B)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and
special rules otherwise stated in this title.
      (1)   Remain in passing lane until clear of overtaken vehicle. The driver
of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall
pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again drive to the
right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. In no
event shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or the main
traveled portion of the roadway.
      (2)   Give right-of-way. Except when overtaking and passing on the right
is permitted, the driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in
favor of the overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the
speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   Cycles. The driver of any two wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon
the left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed
lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 OVERTAKING ON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two or more lanes of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being
traveled by the overtaking vehicle; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
   (B)   Cycles. The driver of a two wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the
right of any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the
unobstructed pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of
not less than eight feet.
   (C)   Safety requirement. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass
another vehicle upon the right only under conditions permitting such movement
in safety. Such movement shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
   (D)   Limitations to overtaking on the right. Vehicles shall be driven on a
roadway, and shall only be driven on the shoulder for the purpose of stopping
or accelerating from a stop while merging into traffic. It shall be a violation
if while merging into traffic and while on the shoulder, the vehicle passes any
other vehicle on the roadway adjacent to it. Nothing in this section shall
apply to an authorized emergency vehicle, to any authorized transit bus, to any
farm tractor or implement of husbandry, to any service vehicle while engaged in
maintenance of the highway or related work, or to any authorized vehicle within
a designated construction zone.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.17 NO PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   No passing zone established. The State Department of Transportation
and the city are authorized to determine those portions of any highway under
their respective jurisdictions where overtaking and passing or driving on the
left of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones,
and when such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions
thereof.
   (B)   Obedience to signs and markings. Where signs or markings are in place
to define a no passing zone as set forth in division (A), no driver may at any
time drive on the left side of the roadway within the no passing zone or on the
left side of any pavement striping designed to mark such no passing zone
throughout its length.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Authority to establish. The State Department of Transportation and
city, with respect to highways and streets under their respective
jurisdictions, may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or
specific lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at
all or such times as shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
   (B)   Obedience mandatory. Upon a roadway so designated for one-way traffic,
a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated at all or such times
as shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
   (C)   Respect dividers or barriers. Whenever any highway has been divided
into two or more roadways by leaving an intervening space or by a physical
barrier or a clearly indicated dividing section so constructed as to impede
vehicular traffic, every vehicle must be driven only upon the right hand
roadway unless directed or permitted to use another roadway by official traffic
control devices or police officers. No vehicle may be driven over, across, or
within such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an opening in
the physical barrier or dividing section, space, or at a crossover or
intersection as established by public authority.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.19 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   Establish safe distance. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not
follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due
regard for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon, and the condition
of, the highway.
   (B)   Attention to towing vehicles. The driver of any truck or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or
residence district and which is following another truck or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle shall, whenever conditions permit, leave sufficient
space so that an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy such space without
danger, except that this shall not prevent a truck or motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle from overtaking and passing any vehicle or combination of
vehicles.
   (C)   Caravans or motorcades. Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway
outside of a business or residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether
or not towing other vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space
between each such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other
vehicle to enter and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not
apply to funeral processions.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: SPEEDING, ACCIDENTS, AND TRANSPORTING ALCOHOL
Section
   
73.01   Speed restrictions generally
   
73.02   Minimum speed restrictions
   
73.03   Speeding in a school zone
   
73.04   Speeding in a construction zone
   
73.05   Accidents involving death or injury
   
73.06   Accidents involving damage to vehicle
   
73.07   Duty to give information and render aid
   
73.08   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or property
   
73.09   Duty to report accident
   
73.10   Immediate notice of accident
   
73.11   False accident reports
   
73.12   Failure to report an accident
   
73.13   Transporting or possessing alcohol
§ 73.01 SPEED RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Due care required. No vehicle may be driven upon any street or highway
of this city at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper with
regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street or highway, or endangers
the safety of any person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does
not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from
the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection,
approaching and going around a curve, approaching a hillcrest, when traveling
upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect
to pedestrians or other traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Obedience to posted speed limit. No person may drive a vehicle upon
any street or highway at a speed which is greater than the applicable maximum
speed limit legally established and posted as required by law.
   (C)   Maximum speed limit established.
      (1)   Unless some other speed restriction is established and posted, the
maximum speed limit for all vehicles within the city is:
         (a)   Thirty miles per hour; and
         (b)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
      (2)   These limits are in effect without posting, and any change in them
in a particular area shall be effective only when signs giving notice of the
limit are erected at the proper place or along the proper part or zone of the
highway or street.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 MINIMUM SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of a vehicle or in compliance with law.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 SPEEDING IN A SCHOOL ZONE.
   (A)   School zones. On a school day when school children are present, and so
close thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of
the motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of 20 miles per hour while passing a school zone, or while traveling
upon any public thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school.
   (B)   Effective times established. For the purpose of this section, a school
day shall begin at 7:00 a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
   (C)   Proper posting of school zones. This section shall not be applicable
unless appropriate signs are posted upon the streets and highways under their
respective jurisdiction and maintained by the city wherein the school zone is
located. Such signs shall give proper due warning that a school zone is being
approached and shall indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in
effect during school days when school children are present. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the use of electronic speed detecting devices within 500
feet of signs within a special school speed zone indicating such zone, as
defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained thereby be inadmissible in
any prosecution for speeding provided the use of such device shall apply only
to the enforcement of the speed limit in such special school speed zone.
   (D)   Mandatory minimum fine. A violation of any part of this section shall
result in a mandatory minimum fine of $250 in addition to any costs or charges
connected with the prosecution of such violation. Any such violation shall be a
mandatory conviction, with no disposition of supervision.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 73.04 SPEEDING IN A CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
   (A)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit whether
workers are present or not.
   (B)   Electronic speed detecting devices. Nothing in this chapter prohibits
the use of electronic speed detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a
construction or maintenance speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this
section, nor shall evidence obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in
any prosecution for speeding, provided the use of the device shall apply only
to the enforcement of the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed
zone.
   (C)   Definition. As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE
SPEED ZONE is an area in which the Department, Toll Highway Authority, or local
agency has posted signage advising drivers that a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE
SPEED ZONE is being approached, or in which the Department, Authority, or local
agency has posted a lower speed limit with a highway CONSTRUCTION OR
MAINTENANCE SPEED ZONE special speed limit sign after determining that the
preexisting established speed limit through a highway construction or
maintenance project is greater than is reasonable or safe with respect to the
conditions expected to exist in the CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED ZONE.
   (D)   Penalty. A person who commits a first violation of this section shall
pay a minimum fine of $250, a second or subsequent violation shall be a minimum
fine of $750.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 73.05 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR INJURY.
   (A)   Responsibility to stop and remain at scene. The driver of any vehicle
involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting in personal injury to or death
of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such
accident, or as close thereto as possible, and shall then forthwith return to,
and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until the
requirements of §
73.07 of this chapter have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Duty to report. Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with
said requirements shall, within three hours after such motor vehicle accident,
or, if hospitalized and incapacitated from reporting at any time during such
period, within 48 hours after being discharged from the hospital, report the
place of the accident, the date, the approximate time, the driver's name and
address, the registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of all
other occupants of such vehicle, at the police department near the place where
such accident occurred. No report made as required under this division shall be
used directly or indirectly, as a basis for the prosecution of any violation of
division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Definition. For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean
any injury requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or
doctor's office.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting
only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person, shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle accident, or
as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of the accident until the requirements of §
73.07 of this chapter have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give the driver's name, address,
registration number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and
shall upon request and if available, exhibit such driver's license to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with, and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for
the carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment, if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if
such carrying is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
provision is in condition to receive and understand such information and no
police officer is present, such driver after rendering reasonable assistance
shall forthwith report such motor vehicle accident at the nearest office of a
duly authorized police authority, disclosing the information required by this
section.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR PROPERTY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property, shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver's name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck,
a written notice giving the driver's name, address, registration number, and
owner of the vehicle the driver was driving, and shall without unnecessary
delay notify the nearest office of a duly authorized police authority and shall
make a written report of such accident when, and as required in §
73.09. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   Generally. The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in
an accident within this city, resulting in injury to or death of any person, or
in which damage to the property of any one person, including himself in excess
of $250 is sustained, shall as soon as possible but not later than ten days
after such accident, forward a written report of such accident to the proper
authority.
   (B)   School bus involved. Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident
in this city, caused by a collision, a sudden stop, or otherwise, resulting in
any property damage, personal injury, or death, and whenever an accident occurs
within 50 feet of a school bus in this city resulting in personal injury to or
the death of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or
immediately after exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but
not later than ten days after the accident, forward a written report to the
Department of Transportation. If a report is also required under division (A)
of this section, that report and the report required by this division shall be
submitted on a single form.
   (C)   Supplemental report. The police or investigating law enforcement
agency may require any driver, occupant, or owner of a vehicle involved in an
accident of which report must be made as provided in this section or §
73.12 of this chapter, to file supplemental reports whenever the original
report is insufficient in the opinion of the Secretary of State or the police
or investigating law enforcement agency, and may require witnesses of the
accident to submit written reports to the police or investigating law
enforcement agency. The report may include photographs, charts, sketches, and
graphs.
   (D)   Failure to report; notification. Should the police or investigating
law enforcement agency learn through other reports of accidents required by law
of the occurrence of an accident reportable under this chapter and the driver,
owner, or witness has not reported as required under division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section, or §
73.12 of this chapter, within the time specified, such person is not relieved
of the responsibility and the police or investigating law enforcement agency
shall notify such person by first class mail directed to his last known address
of his legal obligation
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT.
   (A)   Responsibility of driver. The driver of a vehicle which is in any
manner involved in an accident described in §
73.09 shall, if no police officer is present, give notice of the accident by
the fastest available means of communication to the local police department if
such accident occurs within the city.
   (B)   Driver seriously injured. Whenever the driver of a vehicle is
physically incapable of giving immediate notice of an accident as required in
division (A), and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the
accident capable of doing so, that occupant must give notice as required in
division (A).
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 FALSE ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide false information, knowing or
having reason to believe that such information is false, when providing
information in an oral or written report as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 FAILURE TO REPORT AN ACCIDENT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, such occupant shall make or cause to be made such written report. If
said driver fails for any reason to make such report, the owner of the vehicle
involved in such motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make
said report to the police department.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.13 TRANSPORTING OR POSSESSING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Driver responsibility. Except as provided in division (C) and in
Chapter 111 of this code, no driver may transport, carry, possess, or have any
alcoholic liquor within the passenger area of any motor vehicle upon any street
or highway in this city except in the original container and with the seal
unbroken.
   (B)   Passenger responsibility. Except as provided in division (C) and in
Chapter 111 of this code, no passenger may carry, possess, or have any
alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any motor vehicle upon any street
or highway in this city except in the original container and with the seal
unbroken.
   (C)   Chartered transportation; driver and passenger responsibility. This
section shall not apply to the passengers on a chartered bus when it is being
used for purposes which chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a "motor home
or mini-motor home" as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code. However, the
driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic
liquor in or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by
the driver shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this
section.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 11-14-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING RULES
Section
   
74.01   Time limit parking
   
74.02   Parking for sale, repair or peddling prohibited
   
74.03   Private property
   
74.04   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
74.05   Parking for the handicapped
   
74.06   Load limits
   
74.07   Towing cars away
   
74.08   Parking violations
   
74.09   Prima facie proof
   
74.10   Snow routes
   
74.11   Parking tickets; state statute
Cross-reference:
   Snow routes, see
Chapter 76
§ 74.01 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 PARKING FOR SALE, REPAIR OR PEDDLING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary; or
   (C)   Peddling merchandise.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In any alley that is open and maintained; or
         (m)   Park a vehicle so as to block egress or ingress to any street,
alley or public way.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or un-loading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; or
         (c)   In yellow zones.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   
Ch. 78, Schd. V and
Ch. 79, Schd. I and
Schd. II shall list all applicable no-parking zones.
   (D)   Truck parking prohibited: no second division vehicle licensed for an F
classification or higher shall be parked on any street, alley or any public
parking lot not so designated for public parking of vehicles described herein
in the city except temporary parking for loading and unloading purposes.
Vehicle described in this division (D) shall include either the tractor or
trailer of such unit.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-4) (Ord. 13-98, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1303
§ 74.05 PARKING FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Designated parking. Certain parking spaces within the confines of the
city shall be designated for use by handicapped persons’ vehicles only and will
be posted with appropriate signs to that effect.
   (B)   Use of designated handicapped parking. The use of designated
handicapped parking locations, duly posted and signed shall to that effect, be
open to any vehicle which bears the appropriate handicapped Illinois
Registration Plate issued by the Secretary of State for the State of Illinois,
or a valid handicapped parking permit issued by another governmental agency or
which bears a handicapped card furnished in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-
1301.1 et seq. furnished by the city.
   (C)   Application for state handicapped registration plate. The issuance of
a state handicapped motor vehicle registration plate shall be made with the
Secretary of State of the State of Illinois at any facility provided and
approved for that purpose by the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2)
   (D)   Penalty. Any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter in a posted
designated handicapped space which does not bear an state handicapped
registration plate, or a valid handicapped parking permit issued by another
governmental agency of a city handicapped registration card will be ticketed
and the vehicle will be removed in accordance with departmental policies and in
accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1302. The registered owner of the vehicle as
ascertained by the registration plates of the vehicle will be presumed to be in
control of the vehicle and will be fined $100. The same registered owner will
be held liable for the cost of removal of the vehicle and must pay that cost,
plus storage charges, if any, prior to the release of the vehicle.
   (E)   Handicapped parking areas. Those places designated as “handicapped
parking spaces” are listed in
Ch. 79, Schd. II.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established “gross load limit” on certain
city streets. The term “gross load limit” shall mean the total weight of a
vehicle and the load it is carrying. The specified streets and the load limits
are hereby listed in the motor vehicle schedules at the end of this title. See
Ch. 78, Schd. VII.
   (B)   Exceptions. This title shall not include a vehicle making actual
deliveries to customers or pickup trucks, trucks operated by the city
maintenance and repairs on the street, trash collection vehicles, school busses
or the operation of a vehicle owned by the United States government or state
while on lawful business of these agencies.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-6) (Ord. 10-16, passed 8-9-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.07 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic
duty are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed
away by commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle
illegally parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes
a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct
the movement of any emergency vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in
any public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
      (2)   Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a
public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing and
storing such vehicle(s).
   (B)   Establishment of impounding yard for vehicles.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
words and phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them
respectively.
         BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which the offices of City Hall are open to
the public for normal business.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
         OWNER OF RECORD/INTERESTED PERSON. The recorded title holder(s) or
lien holder(s) of the motor vehicle as registered with the Secretary of State,
State of Illinois, or is not registered in the state, the particular state
where the motor vehicle is registered.
      (2)   Motor vehicle impoundment yard. The city shall establish and equip
a motor vehicle impoundment yard with adequate security and surveillance
capacities to store and protect any vehicles impounded by the city police or
others who wish to use the facility.
      (3)   Motor vehicle impoundment. Pursuant to any part of the state
statutes that permits or requires vehicle impoundment, the City Police
Department shall cause any impounded vehicle to be taken to the city’s
impoundment yard for impoundment and storage prior to the release of the
vehicle. The fees imposed herein by the city shall be uniform for all similarly
situated vehicles and are in addition to any other penalties or fees that may
be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations, or by a person,
firm or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle. The city’s daily
storage fee shall be determined annually by the City Clerk by averaging the
daily storage fee charged by the private impoundment yards of Williamson and
Jackson Counties and setting the city storage fee at the next lower dollar
amount evenly divisible by five below that average.
      (4)   Seizure and impoundment. Whenever a police officer has reason to
believe that a motor vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to
this subchapter, the police officer shall provide for the towing of the motor
vehicle to a facility controlled and operated by the city. This section shall
not apply if the motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and
the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours
after the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered.
         (a)   The city shall notify, or make a reasonable attempt to notify,
the owner of record/interested person or any person who is found to be in
control of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is
such a person, of the fact of the seizure.
         (b)   The city shall also provide a notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the payment of all towing and storage charges.
      (5)   Disposition of impounded motor vehicle.
         (a)   An impoundment and storage fee imposed pursuant to this
subchapter shall constitute a debt due and owing the city.
         (b)   A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this subchapter shall
remain impounded until:
            1.   The impound and storage fees are paid to the city and all
applicable towing fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case the owner of
record/interested person shall be given possession of the motor vehicle; or
            2.   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed or retrieved from the
city’s impoundment facility within 35 days after notice is provided to the
owner of record pursuant to statute shall be deemed abandoned and may be
disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Article II of Chapter 4 of the
State Motor Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.).
         (c)   It shall be the duty of the towing company in possession of a
vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the Police Department confirming
compliance with the foregoing requirements and to retain photo copies of that
documentation in their files for a period of not less than 12 months following
release of the vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made available to
the authorities of the city for inspection and copying, upon their request. The
towing or storage company is prohibited from releasing any vehicle they may tow
within the city until and unless they obtain the documentation as noted above.
         (d)   The person purporting to be the owner of record/interested
person, or the agents of the owner of record/interested person, must present
proof of ownership, current proof of insurance and possess a valid driver’s
license prior to release.
         (e)   Enforcement and administration of this section shall be
consistent with the policies and procedures of 625 ILCS 5/4-201 through 5/4-215
of the State Vehicle Code to the extent that said policies and procedures do
not directly conflict with the provisions of this section.
      (6)   Money to go to funds. The costs accrued in maintenance and
operation of the impoundment yard shall be returned to the city’s General Fund,
and all net fees collected under this section shall be placed into the city’s
Police Safety Fund.
      (7)   Impoundment yard. The Police Department of the city shall be
responsible for the day-to-day operation, collection of daily storage fees and
all record keeping related to the impoundment yard. Oversight of the operation
shall be performed by the City Treasurer. Any needed forms, ledgers or other
necessary documents required for adequate monitoring of and accounting for the
funds derived from the operation of the impoundment yard shall be developed and
put into place by the Police Department with the assistance of the City
Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-7) (Ord. 02-14, passed 3-25-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.08 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking
a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of time a vehicle may
be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for
such illegal parking by paying to the city $10 for each such offense and $15
for the second offense within six months. Such payment may be made at the City
Hall and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received and such money
shall be promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the General
Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain
from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at least
five days.
   (B)   Provided, this section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so
as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police and Fire
Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed or so as to
block an emergency entrance in a hospital, nor shall this section apply to any
person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any
street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial
street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to remove a
vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police Department.
      (1)   Removal; time limit. Any vehicle illegally parked for a period in
excess of 24 hours may be removed by a towing service authorized by the Police
Department of the municipality. In any emergency, any vehicle may be removed by
any means when authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
      (2)   City parking lots. No person shall park a motor vehicle on a city
parking lot unattended for more than 72 hours.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.09 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.10 SNOW ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on the designated streets in Ch. 78,
Schd. IX at any time within 18 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more,
unless the street has been cleared of snow.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.11 PARKING TICKETS; STATE STATUTE.
   (A)    The City Council intends to utilize state law and the procedure set
forth therein.
   (B)   The appropriate authorities are hereby authorized to utilize the
statute and the procedure set forth therein.
(1999 Code, § 24-6-11)
CHAPTER 75: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Abandonment
   
75.03   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
75.04   Removal of motor vehicles or other vehicles; towing or hauling
   
75.05   Police responsibilities
   
75.06   Unknown owner
   
75.07   Identifying and tracing vehicle
   
75.08   Reclaimed vehicles; expenses
   
75.09   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
75.10   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice
   
75.11   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
75.12   Public sale proceeds
   
75.13   Liability
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair, rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   COMPONENT PART. Any part of a vehicle other than a tire having a
manufacturer’s identification number or an identification number issued by the
Secretary of State.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered or discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its characteristic as a substantial property
and left unattended without justification on the owner’s, lien holder’s or
other legally entitled person’s land contrary to the public policy expressed in
this code.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within this municipality.
   REMOVE. To remove, deface, cover or destroy.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration, excepting, however, bicycles, snowmobiles and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-1)
§ 75.02 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Highway. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (B)   Private property. The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on
private or public property other than a highway in view of the general public
anywhere in this municipality is unlawful, except on property of the owner, or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   Owner’s property. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property shall be authorized for removal by the Police Department,
after a waiting period of seven days or more, or may be removed immediately if
determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under 65 ILCS 5/11-40-
3.1. A violation of this section is subject to penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
(625 ILCS 5/4-201) (1999 Code, § 24-7-2) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   Where an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this municipality
who is not the owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person of the
vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Police Department when the
vehicle is within the corporate limits of the municipality. Upon receipt of
such notification, the Police Department or designated representative shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow, as set forth in §
75.05, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner, lien holder or any other
person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of as
provided in this chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/4-202) (1999 Code, § 24-7-3)
§ 75.04 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district for ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway
by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (C)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Police Department, the owner, lien holder or other legally
entitled person of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs.
   (D)   The remaining provisions of 625 ILCS 5/4-203 are hereby adopted by
reference and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of this municipality.
(625 ILCS 5/4-203) (1999 Code, § 24-7-4)
§ 75.05 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
    When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided herein, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number, license
plate or digital license plate year and number and registration sticker or
digital registration sticker year and number displayed on the vehicle. The
record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from,
location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing
the tow.
(625 ILCS 5/4-204) (1999 Code, § 24-7-5)
§ 75.06 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person, they will cause
the motor vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a
directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
   (B)    The Police Department authorizing the impoundment shall cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois state police to be searched by a
directed communication to the state police for stolen or wanted information of
the vehicle. The information determined from these record searches shall be
used by the Police Department in sending notification by certified mail to the
owner, lien holder or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is
held, requesting a disposition to be made and setting forth public sale
information.
(625 ILCS 5/4-205) (1999 Code, § 24-7-6)
§ 75.07 IDENTIFYING AND TRACING VEHICLE.
    When the registered owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of this state or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the Illinois
state police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner, lien holder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information
obtained by the Illinois state police shall be immediately forwarded to the
Police Department having custody of the vehicle for notification purposes as
set forth in  §
75.06.
(625 ILCS 5/4-206) (1999 Code, § 24-7-7)
§ 75.08 RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in §
75.09, the owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof
of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle
shall be released to the owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person
under this section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(625 ILCS 5/4-207) (1999 Code, § 24-7-8)
§ 75.09 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle seven years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police
Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
auction to a person licensed as an automatic parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap
processor under 625 ILCS 5. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the
sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder or other person
known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
shall not be required.
(625 ILCS 5/4-208)
(1999 Code, § 24-7-9)
§ 75.10 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner, lien holder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or
unclaimed vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any
means provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for in
§
75.09 without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
   (B)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this code, it shall be kept in custody for a minimum
of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner
and lien holder and contacting the registered owner and lien holder by the U.S.
mail, public service or in person for a determination of disposition; and an
examination of the Illinois state police stolen motor vehicle files for theft
and wanted information. (At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the
benefit of disposition information being received from the registered owner,
lien holder or other legally entitled person, the Chief of Police shall
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk.)
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may,
however, be sold to a person desiring to restore it.
(625 ILCS 5/4-209) (1999 Code, § 24-7-10)
§ 75.11 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, lien holder or other legally
entitled person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction shall be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
(625 ILCS 5/4-210) (1999 Code, § 24-7-11)
§ 75.12 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Police Department and disposed of as set
forth in this code, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
(625 ILCS 5/4-211) (1999 Code, § 24-7-12)
§ 75.13 LIABILITY.
   A law enforcement officer or agency, towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his or her legal
representative, lien holder or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by this code.
(625 ILCS 5/4-213) (1999 Code, § 24-7-13)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this chapter,
upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $75, nor more than $750, and
shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the abandoned or
unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing and storage charges pursuant to this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 24-7-14)
CHAPTER 76: SNOW ROUTES
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Parking on snow emergency routes
   
76.03   Condition of motor vehicles operated on emergency routes
   
76.04   Stalled vehicles on snow emergency route
   
76.05   Declarations by the Mayor
   
76.06   Termination of parking prohibition
   
76.07   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence
   
76.08   Signs to mark snow emergency routes
   
76.09   Impounding vehicles
   
76.10   Violation
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets generally traversing the entire city or
a major part thereof, and are considered essential to the rapid movement of
emergency vehicles and normally carry the heaviest traffic volumes.
   SNOW TIRES. Any tires mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles which are
especially designed to give effective traction on snow, mud or ice-covered
streets by means of extra heavy duty treads with special high-traction
patterns, except that no tire so defined shall be constructed to be a SNOW TIRE
if it is damaged or worn to the extent that its performance would be
substantially impaired.
   TIRE CHAINS. Any metal chains mounted on drive wheel tires of motor vehicles
which cross the tread of each such tire laterally in at least three different
places.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-1)
§ 76.02 PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or Chairperson of Public Safety finds, on the basis
of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by the
United States Weather Bureau or other weather service of snow, sleet or
freezing rain that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle
traffic be expedited and that parking on city streets by prohibited or
restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, he or she shall put into effect
a parking prohibition on snow emergency routes as necessary by declaring it in
a manner prescribed. Such parking prohibition shall automatically go into
effect on any part of any snow emergency route on which there has been an
accumulation of snow and ice of four inches or more.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by announcement of the Mayor or Chairperson of public
safety in accordance with this chapter, except that any street area which has
become substantially clear of snow and ice from curb to curb for the length of
the entire block shall be automatically excluded therefrom. While the
prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any
vehicle on any portion of a primary snow emergency route to which it applies.
See Ch. 78, Schd IX.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.03 CONDITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES OPERATED ON EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on a
snow emergency route on which there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice which
shall allow such vehicle to become stalled wholly or partly because the drive
wheels thereof are not equipped with effective tire chains or snow tires.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on a
snow emergency route on which there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice on
which there is a parking prohibition in effect to allow such vehicle to become
stalled because the motor fuel is exhausted or the battery has become
inoperative.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.04 STALLED VEHICLES ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this chapter, on any part of a snow emergency route on which there
is a covering of snow sleet or ice or on which there is a parking prohibition
in effect, the person operating such vehicle shall take immediate action to
have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of such snow emergency route
into the first cross-street which is not a snow emergency route. No person
shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway of a snow emergency
route (regardless of whether he or she indicated, by raising the hood or
otherwise, that the vehicle is stalled), except for the purpose of securing
assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a
nearby garage, gasoline station or other place of assistance and return without
delay.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.05 DECLARATIONS BY THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall cause each declaration made pursuant to this chapter
to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts or telecasts from stations with
a normal operating range covering the city, and he or she may cause such
declaration to be further announced in newspapers of general circulation when
feasible. Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the Mayor,
including the time it became or will become effective, and shall specify the
streets or areas affected, and shall not go into effect until at least three
hours after it has been announced at least three times between 6:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m. on any day; provided, however, that one announcement in a newspaper
of general circulation shall be sufficient.
   (B)   The Mayor shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and
date when any declaration is announced to the public in accordance with this
section.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-5)
§ 76.06 TERMINATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION.
   Whenever the Mayor shall find that some or all of the conditions which give
rise to a parking prohibition in effect pursuant to this chapter no longer
exist, he or she may declare the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part,
in a manner prescribed by this chapter, effective immediately upon
announcement.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-6)
§ 76.07 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this chapter which becomes effective by declaration of the
Mayor or upon the occurrence of certain weather conditions shall, while
temporarily in effect, take precedence over other conflicting provisions of law
normally in effect, except that it shall not take precedence over provisions of
law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency
vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-7)
§ 76.08 SIGNS TO MARK SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   On each street designated by this chapter or by resolution as hereafter
provided, a snow emergency route, such street shall be posted with appropriate
signs at intervals not exceeding one-fourth mile (1,320 feet or 0.4
kilometers). Signs posted in accordance with this section shall be distinctive
and uniform in appearance and shall be plainly visible and readable to persons
traveling on the street or highway.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-8)
§ 76.09 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle parked on any snow emergency route in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter may be impounded in accordance with this, and no
person shall recover without first paying the cost of removal and the cost of
storage. Any payments required by this section shall not be construed as a
penalty so as to preclude prosecution for violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.10 VIOLATION.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this chapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation
of a provision of this chapter, together with proof that the defendant named in
the complaint was at the time the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the person who parked or
left the vehicle in violation of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 24-8-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 77: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
77.01   Generally
   
77.02   Definitions
   
77.03   Requirements
   
77.04   Permits
   
77.05   Validity
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 GENERALLY.
    Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles, as defined and qualified herein
shall be allowed on city streets under the conditions as stated herein, and
shall be allowed on any golf course within the city limits. All terrain
vehicles, including but not limited to four-wheelers, as defined and qualified
herein, shall only be allowed on city streets for municipal use by municipal
employees.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 5-11-2010; Ord. 13-23, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 77.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE. As defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-101.8 or any motorized off-
highway device designed to travel primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in
width, having a manufacturer’s dry weight of 900 pounds or less, traveling on
three or more low pressure tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator
use, and handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except equipment
such as lawnmowers.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the city.
   GOLF CART. A motorized vehicle with three or four wheels that is not
designed to be operated at a speed of more than 25 mph, but is capable of
attaining in one mile a speed of more than 15 mph, whose purpose can include,
but is not limited to, the playing of golf and is generally designed to carry
persons including the driver.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE. Not intended for four-wheelers, a self-propelled,
electrically powered four-wheel motor vehicle or a self-propelled gasoline or
diesel powered four wheeled motor vehicle with an engine displacement under
1,200 cubic centimeters which is capable of attaining in one mile a speed of
more than 15 mph, but not more than 25 mph, and which conforms to the federal
regulations under 49 C.F.R. part 571.500.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 5-11-2010; Ord. 13-23, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 77.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or a utility terrain vehicle on
the city streets must ensure, compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of current liability insurance;
   (B)   Must be certified with the city and have the vehicles certified with
the city by inspection by the Chief of Police or designated representative;
   (C)   Must comply with the published Rules Concerning Alternate
Transportation For the City of Johnston City, as periodically updated;
   (D)   Must have city decal on the rear of the vehicle;
   (E)   Must have current, valid Illinois driver’s license;
   (F)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (3)   Turn signals;
      (4)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Rearview mirror;
      (7)   Driver and passenger seat belts;
      (8)   Approved “slow moving vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle;
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
      (9)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 300
feet to the front of which illuminate when in operation;
      (10)   Tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear which must be illuminated when in operation; and
   (G)   Utility terrain vehicles must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (2)   Turn signals on the front and rear;
      (3)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (4)   Tires;
      (5)   Rearview mirror;
      (6)   Driver and passenger seat belts;
      (7)   Approved “slow moving vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle;
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
      (8)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 300
feet to the front of which illuminate when in operation;
      (9)   Tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear which must be illuminated when in operation; and
   (H)   Must obey all traffic laws of the state and the city;
   (I)   Must be 18 years of age;
   (J)   Must be operated only on city streets, except where prohibited;
   (K)   May not be operated on Illinois Route 37 during the hours 7:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. on days which school is in session, except to cross highway at any
intersection;
   (L)   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limit and, with respect
to utility terrain vehicles and golf carts, may not exceed 25 mph;
   (M)   A person operating or is in actual physical control of a golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under the
influence is subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502;
(625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1)
   (N)   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles shall not be operated on
sidewalks or in village parks other than parking areas; and
   (O)   Golf carts and utility terrain vehicles may not be operated on streets
and highways and roads under the jurisdiction of the State Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 5-11-2010) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk as provided
herein. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year from the date of
issuance and shall be renewed annually. The cost of the permit is $50. The cost
for the renewal of each permit shall be $25. Insurance coverage to be verified
by the Police Department when obtaining or renewing a permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all future claims
resulting from the operation of their golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on
the city streets;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit; and
      (6)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the City Chief of Police (or
designee) to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is
in compliance with this chapter and with the State Motor Vehicle Code;
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on city streets; and
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
provisions of the state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicle to be operated on the roads of the state.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon finding
that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter, or there is
evidence that permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart or utility
terrain vehicle on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 5-11-2010) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 VALIDITY.
   (A)   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this chapter to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable.
   (B)   The invalidity of any part of this chapter shall not affect any part
or parts thereof.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 5-11-2010)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of $75. Any second or
subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the permit for a period of
not less than three nor more than five years. To the extent that any violation
of this chapter also constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the
state, then the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 5-11-2010)
CHAPTER 78: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through and stop intersections
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Speed limits
      
V.   School speed limits
      
VI.   U-turns prohibited
      
VII.   Load limit streets
      
VIII.   Truck routes
      
IX.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   One and two-way stop intersections:
Through Street Stop Street (Direction)
Through Street  Stop Street (Direction)
2nd St.         Benton Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
3rd St.         Adams Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
3rd St.         Benton Ave. (Both)
3rd St.         Washington Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
4th St.         Benton Ave. (North Bd.)
4th St.         Pine Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
4th St.         Trout Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
5th St.         Adams Ave. (Both)
5th St.         Benton Ave. (Both) (#28-96)
5th St.         Follis Ave. (Both)
5th St.         Jefferson Ave. (South Bd.)
5th St.         Johnston Ave. (Both)
5th St.         Nelson Ave. (Both)
5th St.         Taft Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
5th St.         Washington Ave. (Both)
7th St.         Adams Ave. (Both)
7th St.         Burgess Ave. (Both)
8th St.         Davis Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
8th St.         Pine Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
8th St.         Taft Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
8th St.         Trout Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
9th St.         Adams Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Barham Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Benton Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Brush Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Burgess Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Davis Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Follis Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Gent Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Herrin Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Market Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         McClintock Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Monroe Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Nelson Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Noah Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Pine Ave. (South Bd.)
9th St.         Taft Ave. (Both) (#12-01)
9th St.         Trout Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Washington Ave. (Both)
9th St.         Water Ave. (North Bd.)
9th St.         Woods Ave. (South Bd.)
10th St.        Gent Ave. (Both)
10th St.        Market St. (Both) (#6-95)
10th St.        McClintock St. (North Bd.) (#01-04)
10th St.        Nelson Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
10th St.        Noah Ave. (Both)
10th St.        Peterson Ave. (South Bd.)
10th St.        Pine Ave. (Both)
10th St.        Taft Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
11th St.        Follis Ave. (North Bd.)
11th St.        Noah Ave. (Both)
11th St.        Pine Ave. (Both)
11th St.        Taft Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
12th St.        Adams Ave. (Both)
12th St.        Benton Ave. (Both)
12th St.        Burgess Ave. (Both)
12th St.        Peterson Ave. (Both)
12th St.        Pine Ave. (Both)
12th St.        Washington Ave. (North Bd.)
14th St.        Davis St. (Both) (#3-91)
14th St.        Gent Ave. (Both) (#12-01)
14th St.        Pine Ave. (Both)
15th St.        Barham Ave. (North Bd.)
15th St.        Burgess Ave. (North Bd.)
15th St.        Davis Ave. (Both)
15th St.        Follis (Both) (#10-93)
15th St.        Gent Ave. (South Bd.)
15th St.        Newton Ave. (North Bd.)
15th St.        Johnson Ave. (North Bd.) (#09-03)
15th St.        Noah Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
15th St.        Pine Ave. (Both)
16th St.        Follis Ave. (Both) (#12-01)
17th St.        Davis Ave. (Both)
17th St         Pine Ave. (Both) (#12-01)
17th St.        Trout Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
18th St.        Davis Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
18th St.        Follis Ave. (North Bd.) (#12-01)
18th St.        Pine Ave. (Both) (#12-01)
Adams Ave.      4th St. (Both)
Adams Ave.      8th St. (Both)
Adams Ave.      11th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Adams Ave.      13th St. (Both)
Adams Ave.      14th St. (Both)
Adams Ave.      15th St. (East Bd.)
Barham Ave.     7th St. (Both)
Barham Ave.     10th St. (Both)
Barham Ave.     11th St. (Both)
Barham Ave.     13th St. (Both)
Benton Ave.     11th St. (East Bd.)
Benton Ave.     13th St. (Both) (#04-03)
Benton Ave.     14th St. (East Bd.) (#12-01)
Benton Ave.     15th St. (East Bd.) (#12-01)
Benton Ave.     16th St. (East Bd.) (#12-01)
Benton Ave.     17th St. (East Bd.) (#12-01)
Benton Ave.     Perrine St. (East Bd.)
Broadway Blvd.  Taft Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
Broadway Blvd.  All intersecting streets
Brush Ave.      11th St. (East Bd.) (#12-01)
Brush Ave.      14th St. (Both) (#9-96)
Burgess Ave.    10th St. (Both)
Burgess Ave.    11th St. (Both)
Burgess Ave.    13th St. (Both)
Burgess Ave.    14th St. (Both)
Cornith Rd.     12th St. (East Bd.)
Cornith Rd.     Broadway Blvd. (East Bd.)
Davis Ave.      10th St. (Both)
Davis Ave.      11th St. (Both)
Davis Ave.      13th St. (Both)
Follis Ave.     10th St. (East Bd.)
Follis Ave.     11th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Follis Ave.     17th St. (Both) (#12-01)
Gent Ave.       11th St. (Both)
Grand Ave.      All intersecting streets
Herrin Ave.     5th St. (West Bd.)
Herrin Ave.     8th St. (West Bd.)
Herrin Ave.     10th St. (West Bd.)
Jefferson Ave.  7th St. (East Bd.)
Jefferson Ave.  8th St. (East Bd.)
Jefferson Ave.  13th St. (East Bd.)
Johnston Ave.   8th St. (Both)
Johnston Ave.   11th St. (Both)
Main Ave.       3rd St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Main Ave.       4th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Main Ave.       5th St. (West Bd.)
Market Ave.     10th St. (Both)
Market Ave.     11th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Market Ave.     12th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Market Ave.     13th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Meadow Ln.      Imhoff Ln. (#09-04)
Monroe Ave.     5th St. (East Bd.)
Monroe Ave.     7th St. (East Bd.)
Monroe Ave.     13th St. (Both)
Newton Ave.     7th St. (East Bd.)
Newton Ave.     10th St. (Both)
Newton Ave.     11th St. (Both)
Newton Ave.     13th St. (Both) (#04-03)
Newton Ave.     14th St. (Both)
Noah Ave.       11th St. (Both) (Ord. 26-96)
Noah Ave.       12th St. (West Bd.) (#12-01)
Noah Ave.       13th St. (West Bd.)
Noah Ave.       14th St. (Both)
Perrine St.     Follis Ave. (North Bd.)
Perrine St.     Noah Ave. (South Bd.) (#12-01)
Perrine St.     Pine Ave. (Both)
Peterson Ave.   11th St. (West Bd.)
Pine St.        16th St. (Both) (#4-97)
Trout Ave.      10th St. (Both)
Trout Ave.      13th St. (Both) (#10-93)
Trout Ave.      15th St. (Both)
Trout Ave.      Perrine St. (Both)
Washington Ave. 4th St. (Both)
Washington Ave. 7th St. (Both)
Washington Ave. 8th St. (West Bd.)
Water Ave.      2nd St. (East Bd.)
Water Ave.      4th St. (East Bd.)
Water Ave.      6th St. (East Bd.)
Woods Ave.      10th St. (Both)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. A)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.06  the following are hereby declared to be two or three-way stop
intersections, to-wit:
Street Street
Street                     Street
3rd St. (East Bd.)         at Water Ave. (North Bd.)
4th St. (Both)             at Davis Ave. (South Bd.)
4th St.                    and Benton Ave. (#1-98)
4th St.                    and Follis Ave. (#1-98)
5th St.                    and Davis St (#22-94)
5th St.                    and Nelson Ave. (#12-01)
5th St.                    and Pine St. (#21-90)
5th St.                    and Trout St. (#23-94)
8th St.                    and Follis Ave.
9th St.                    and Jefferson Ave.
9th St.                    and Johnston Ave.
9th St.                    and Newton Ave.
10th St.                   and Brush Ave.
10th St.                   and Burgess Ave. (#12-01)
10th St.                   and Johnston Ave. (#9-98)
11th St. (West Bd.)        at Hobbs St. (Both) (#10-97)
12th St.                   and Barham Ave.
12th St.                   and Brush Ave. (#10-99)
12th St.                   and Davis Ave.
12th St.                   and Jefferson Ave.
12th St.                   and Monroe Ave.
12th St.                   and Newton Ave.
12th St.                   and Trout Ave.
13th St.                   and Brush Ave.
14th St.                   and Barham Ave. (#21-89)
14th St.                   and Jefferson Ave.
14th St.                   and Market St. (#23-90)
14th St.                   and Monroe St. (#30-96)
14th St.                   and Newton Ave. (#12-01)
14th St.                   and Trout Ave.
15th St.                   and Adams Ave.
15th St.                   and Monroe Ave.
Broadway Blvd. (East Bd.)  at Follis Ave. (South Bd.)
Broadway Blvd.             and Grand Ave.
Broadway Blvd.             and Herrin Ave.
Broadway Blvd.             and Newton Ave.
Herrin Ave. (Both)         at 5th St. (West Bd.) (#01-2002)
Jefferson Ave. (North Bd.) at 15th St. (Both)
Johnson St. (North Bd.)    at 14th St. (Both) (#09-03)
Pentecost Rd. (Both)       at 11th St. (West Bd.) (#06-05)
Pine St. (South Bd.)       at 13th St. (Both) (#11-91)
Perrine St.                and Davis Ave.
Trout Ave.                 and 11th St. (#9-98)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. B)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   In accordance with §
72.18 , the following streets are designated as one-way streets, to wit:
Street (Direction) Location
Street (Direction)          Location
12th St. (East Bd.)         From Davis Ave. to Grand Ave. from 7:00 a.m. to 4:
                            00 p.m. on school days (Mon-Fri)
13th St.                    From Jefferson and Adams from 7:00 a.m. until 4:00
                            p.m. on school days (Mon-Fri) (#12-07)
Adams St. (South Bd.)       From 9th St. to 12th St. from 2:00 p.m. and 4:00
                            p.m. on school days (Mon-Fri) (#10-91)
Adams Ave. (North Bd.)      From 12th St. to 14th St. from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00
                            p.m. on school days (Mon-Fri)
Parkway Dr.                  
Perrine St. (West Bd.)      From Grand Ave. to Davis Ave. from 7:00 a.m. to 4:
                            00 p.m. on school days (Mon-Fri)
Pine Ave (South Bd.)        From 8th St. to 6th St. from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                            on school days (Mon-Fri)
                            From 12th St. toward 9th St., ending 200 feet
Washington Ave. (South Bd.) before 9th St. from 7:00 a.m. until 4 p.m. on
                            school days (Mon-Fri)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. C) (Ord. 08-13, passed 7-23-2013; Ord. 16-16, passed
12-27-2016; Ord. 11-18, passed 8-14-2018)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
73.01 , the following speed limit zones are hereby designated, to wit:
 
Street (Speed)         Location
All Park Road (20 mph) City parks (#9-87)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. D)
SCHEDULE V. SCHOOL SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
73.03 , the following school speed zones are hereby established:
Street Location
Street          Location
9th St.         Between Washington Ave. and C&FI Railroad tracks
10th St.        Between Monroe Ave. and Barham Ave.
11th St.        Between Monroe Ave. and Barham Ave.
12th St.        Between Grand Ave. and Davis Ave.
15th St.        Between Monroe Ave. and Davis Ave.
Adams Ave.      Between 15th St. and north city limits
Barham Ave.     Between 10th St. and 11th St.
Davis Ave.      Between Perrine St. and Twelfth St.
Grand Ave.      Between Perrine St. and Twelfth St.
Monroe Ave.     Between 10th St. and 11th St.
Monroe Ave.     Between 15th St. and north city limits
Perrine St.     Between Grand Ave. and Davis Ave.
Washington Ave. Between 9th St. and a point 150 feet north of 9th St.
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. E)
SCHEDULE VI. U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
72.04 , U-turns are prohibited on the following streets:
 
Street         Location
Broadway Blvd. All intersections between Follis and Monroe Ave. (#206)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. H)
SCHEDULE VII. LOAD LIMIT STREETS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
74.06, the following streets are hereby designated as load limit streets:
 
Maximum load 2,000 pounds
Street          Location
12th St.        From Grand Ave. to Jefferson Ave. (#258)
Broadway Blvd.  From Newton Ave. to Grand Ave. (#258)
Jefferson Ave.  From 15th St. to Broadway Blvd. (#258)
Newton Ave.     From 9th St. to Broadway Blvd. (#258)
Washington Ave. From 12th St. to Broadway Blvd. (#258)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. I) (Ord. 10-16, passed 8-9-2016)
SCHEDULE VIII. TRUCK ROUTES.
   In accordance with the provisions of  this code,  the following truck routes
are hereby established:
 
Street         Location
9th St.        Between Grand Ave. and east city limits (#12-83)
Broadway Blvd. Between Herrin Ave. and Grand Ave. (#12-83)
Grand Ave.     Between north and south city limits (#12-83)
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. J)
SCHEDULE IX. SNOW ROUTES.
   In accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 76, the following streets are hereby designated as snow emergency
routes:
 
Street         Location
9th St.        From west city limits to east city limits
12th St.       From Rte. 37 to Jefferson Ave.
Adams Ave.     From 9th St. to 15th St.
Broadway Blvd. From west city limits to east city limits
Jefferson Ave. From Broadway Blvd. to 15th St.
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. K)
CHAPTER 79: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited parking zones
      
II.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
74.01, the following streets are hereby designated as limited parking zones,
and no person shall park a vehicle in these zones for a longer period of
consecutive time than is permitted:
   (A)   One-hour parking limit from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., except Sundays and
holidays.
Street; Side Location
Street; Side              Location
Broadway Blvd. (Both)     From Monroe Ave. to Follis Ave. (#12-85)
N. Washington Ave. (East) From Broadway Blvd. north to first alley (#12-85)
S. Washington Ave. (West) From Broadway Blvd. south to first alley (#12-85)
N. Washington Ave. (West) From 7th St. south to first alley (#12-85)
S. Jefferson Ave. (West)  From Broadway Blvd. to 5th St. (#12-85)
N. Adams Ave. (East)      From Broadway Blvd. to 7th St. (#12-85)
S. Adams Ave. (West)      From Broadway Blvd. to 5th St. (#12-85)
S. Monroe Ave. (West)     From Broadway Blvd. to 5th St. (#12-85)
S. Monroe Ave. (East)     From Broadway Blvd. south to first alley (#12-85)
 
   (B)   No parking from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days:
 
Street; Side    Location
15th St. (Both) From Adams St. to Monroe St. (#2-89)
 
   (C)   Five-minute parking:
 
Street; Side              Location
W. Broadway Blvd. (South) In front of post office
 
   (D)   15-minute parking:
 
Street; Side           Location
Washington Ave. (West) South one-half between 5th St. and Broadway Blvd.
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. F)
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING ZONES.
    In accordance with the provisions of §
74.04, the following streets are hereby designated as no parking zones, to wit:
Street (Side) Location
Street (Side)                       Location
4th Street (North)                  From Pine Avenue to Follis Avenue (#2-
                                    89)
5th Street                          From Nelson Avenue to Johnson Avenue
                                    (#1-83)
5th Street (South)                  From Follis Street to Pine Street (#13-
                                    92)
10th Street (South)                 From Monroe Street to Barham Street
                                    (#12-96)
16th Street (North and South)       From Benton Avenue to Grand Avenue
17th Street (North and South)       From Benton Avenue to Grand Avenue
Broadway Blvd. (North and South)    From Follis Avenue to Monroe Avenue (#2-
                                    79)
Broadway Street (North)             From Washington Street East 25 feet (#2-
                                    95)
                                    From Washington Street to a point 25
Broadway Street (North)             feet to a point 50 feet East
                                    (handicapped parking) (#2-95)
Brush Street (West)                 From 9th Street to 15th Street (#10-96)
Jefferson Avenue (West)             From Broadway Blvd. to 15th Street
Monroe Avenue (North and South)     From 9th to 15th Street
Monroe Avenue (West)                From 15th Street to City Limits
Monroe Street (North and South)     From Broadway Avenue to 15th Street
                                    (#11-03)
Nelson Avenue (North and South)     From 5th Street to Broadway Blvd.
Parkway Drive (No parking on the
outside of the one-way drive (Right From Adams Street to Adams Street
Side))
Perrin Street (North and South)     From Grand Avenue to Trout Avenue (#10-
                                    03)
Pina Street (North and South)       From Broadway Street to 5th Street (#19-
                                    99)
Washington Avenue (East)            From 4th Street to 5th Street (#7-84)
Washington Street (East)            From Broadway Street to first alley
                                    North (#2-95)
Washington Street (North)           From 9th Street to 12th Street (#13-95)
Adjacent to the southbound and northbound through lanes of Illinois Route 37
from the southern corporate limits of the city to the northern corporate
limits of the city and adjacent to the eastbound and westbound through lanes
of West Broadway Blvd, from station 0+825 extending easterly to station
0+994.6 (west edge of southbound Illinois Route 37) and from station 1+005.4
(east edge of northbound Illinois Route 37 extending easterly to station
1+170, and adjacent to the through lanes of West 9th Street from station
0+960 extending easterly to station 0+996.35 (west edge of pavement of
Illinois Route 37) and from station 1+003.65 (east edge of pavement of
Illinois Route 37) to station 1+145.
 
(1999 Code, Ch. 24, Sch. G) (Ord. 03A-2002, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. 07-13,
passed 6-25-2013; Ord. 07-15, passed 9-22-2015; Ord. 01-18, passed 1-9-2018;
Ord. 03-20, passed 2-25-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   LIBRARY
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   STREET REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Short title
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Injury to property
   
90.004   Manner of keeping
   
90.005   Keeping barking dogs and crying cats
   
90.006   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.007   Exhibiting wild or vicious animals
   
90.008   Health hazard
   
90.009   Limitation on number of dogs and cats kept
   
90.010   Animals and the like in city
Dog Regulations
   
90.025   Definitions
   
90.026   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
90.027   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
90.028   Duration of inoculation
   
90.029   Specifications for tag
   
90.030   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
90.031   Restraint of dogs
   
90.032   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper
   
90.033   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
90.034   Obstructing poundmaster
   
90.035   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
90.036   Impoundment
   
90.037   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.038   City pound designated
   
90.039   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
90.040   Dangerous dog; female dog at large
   
90.041   Female dog with other dogs
Vicious Dogs, Dangerous Dogs
   
90.055   Definitions
   
90.056   Vicious dogs
   
90.057   Dangerous dogs
   
90.058   Harboring or return of vicious dogs prohibited
   
90.059   Exception
   
90.060   Registration
   
90.061   Requirements of dangerous dogs
   
90.062   Apprehension and impoundment
   
90.063   Removal of dog pending litigation
   
90.064   License required
   
90.065   Violations
Cat Code
   
90.080   Definitions
   
90.081   Vaccination against rabies required; vaccination tag
   
90.082   License required
   
90.083   License tag
   
90.084   Information required; receipt; tag
   
90.085   Cats running at large while in heat
   
90.086   Wearing of collars; removal of license tag
   
90.087   Public nuisance
   
90.088   Cats injuring or destroying property of others
   
90.089   License fee
   
90.090   Hobby kennel or cattery permit
   
90.091   Minimum standards of sanitation
   
90.092   Disposition of fees
   
90.093   Term of license
   
90.094   Enforcement
   
90.095   Poisoning or injuring of cats
   
90.096   Duty to place cat under observation; when required; procedure
   
90.097   Holding impounded cats
   
90.098   Shelter fee; release from shelter
   
90.099   Warden’s duties
   
90.100   Warden’s records and reports
   
90.101   Impounding time limit
   
90.102   Receiving cats at shelter; registration
   
90.103   Interference with capture of cats
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Animal Control Code.
(510 ILCS 5/1) (1999 Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than humans, which may be affected by rabies.
(510 ILCS 5/2.02)
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council to perform duties as assigned by the Mayor to effectuate this
code.
(510 ILCS 5/2.03)
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of his or her owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
(510 ILCS 5/2.05)
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
(510 ILCS 5/2.06)
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11)
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
(510 ILCS 5/2.12)
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
(510 ILCS 5/2.13)
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
(510 ILCS 5/2.14)
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
(510 ILCS 5/2.15)
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its custodian,
or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on any premises occupied by him or
her. OWNER does not include a feral cat caretaker participating in a trap,
spay/neuter, vaccinate for rabies, and return or release program.
(510 ILCS 5/2.16)
   POUND. Any facility approved by the Administrator and licensed as such by
the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of enforcing this code and used
as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs or other
animals.
(510 ILCS 5/2.18)
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this code.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19)
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this code if he or
she is controlled by a leash, at “heel” beside a responsible person, within a
vehicle being driven or parked on the streets or within the property limits of
his or her owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of June
through September.
   SHELTER. As it applies to dogs, a moisture-proof structure of suitable size
to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of durable
material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground and with
the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof material. Such structure shall
be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide
insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
   UNOWNED STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the owner or keeper or
under control by leash or other recognized control methods, and which does not,
at that time and place, bear a current rabies inoculation tag issued pursuant
to the provisions of this code, by means of which, by reference to records of
current registration certificates, the Administrator or his or her deputies or
assistants may determine the name and address of the owner or keeper thereof,
or some other means of identification from which the Administrator or his or
her deputies or assistants may directly determine the name and address of the
owner or keeper thereof.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 90.003 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises
and break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub,
tree or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a dog or cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person unless such person has in his or her immediate
possession an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an appropriate
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a
person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.004 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards or runs. All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein
any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and
kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.005 KEEPING BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions of complaint. Whenever any person shall complain to the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the city, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.006 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture,
abuse or cruelly beat, strike or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or
neglect, cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury or death to any animal, whether such animal belongs to such person or to
another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the County
Animal Control Facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or
upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner. The terms used in this section
shall comply with §
90.002.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6
§ 90.007 EXHIBITING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal as described in this chapter for
display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal
exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the city. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may be
seized by any police officer or humane officer and, upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency, nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that such animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence or other adequate means from contact with the general public
or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of
the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.008 HEALTH HAZARD.
   The Mayor shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to be a nuisance or pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 90.009 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS KEPT.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the
city for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms “dog” and “cat” shall be construed
as provided in §
90.002.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs and/or three cats within the city, with the exception that a litter
of pups, a litter of kittens or a portion of a litter may be kept for a period
of time not exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding.
   (C)   Kennels. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be
located closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent
residential lot.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.010 ANIMALS AND THE LIKE IN CITY.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall keep within the city any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine,
goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese or other livestock.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply in areas of the city that are
zoned agricultural in nature, nor shall this section apply to livestock brought
in to the city for the purpose of being shipped out of the city.
   (C)   Powers of Police Chief. The Police Chief shall have the power to issue
an order prohibiting the keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to
pose a health hazard to the general public.
(1999 Code, § 3-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6 and 5/11-20-9
DOG REGULATIONS
§ 90.025 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
90.002, unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 90.026 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.027 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The inoculation of dogs required by §
90.026(A) shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in this state.
   (B)   Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to the
owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to the
owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the collar
or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of the
inoculation against rabies.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 90.028 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
90.027 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which
the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may
be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 90.029 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
90.027 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 90.030 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time, upon request of any member of the Police Department
or city employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his or
her certificate issued under the provisions of §
90.027, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled
by him or her.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 90.031 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all
times, and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the
property of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as
defined in §
90.002.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9
§ 90.032 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department, as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor, to take up
and impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose,
any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the city, contrary to any of
the provisions of this chapter or other regulations of the city.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the city is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
   (D)   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within seven days shall
be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the poundkeeper.
   (E)   The City Council may establish a reasonable fee by motion for each day
that a dog is housed in the pound.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 510 ILCS 5/10
§ 90.033 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding, and where the owner or keeper of such dog is
disclosed by any tax or license tag worn by it, or is otherwise known to the
officers impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable
attempts to contact the owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or
her dog, and shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of
violation of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 90.034 OBSTRUCTING POUNDMASTER.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the city for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded or any person who shall resist, hinder or
molest the poundmaster or dogcatcher or police officer while engaged upon the
duties imposed upon them by this chapter, or any person who shall break into
the dog pound and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first
paid the fees herein specified, or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall
permit any dog to run at large within the corporate limits of the city, upon
conviction of any part of this chapter shall be fined according to §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.035 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and kept
separated from other dogs for ten days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner; however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve
the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be delivered
to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the ten days no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this chapter; provided,
however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall have
previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed by the
poundkeeper. After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.036 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter may employ any
method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any dog found
running at large.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.037 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal impounded under this chapter may redeem the same by
paying all the costs and charges assessed, if any, that have accrued up to the
time of making redemption, and on paying the same, it shall be the duty of the
authorities to release the animal from the pound and deliver it to its owner,
or certify the release thereof to any county authority having possession of the
animal.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.038 CITY POUND DESIGNATED.
   The City Council shall designate a city pound.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-14)
§ 90.039 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this code.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.040 DANGEROUS DOG; FEMALE DOG AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
or of any female dog, while in heat, to run at large within the limits of this
city.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.041 FEMALE DOG WITH OTHER DOGS.
   No person in control or possession of a female dog or permitting the same to
remain upon his or her premises, shall permit any such female dog, while in
heat, to consort with any other dog or dogs in an indecent manner in any place
of public view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
(1999 Code, § 3-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, 5/11-20-9
VICIOUS DOGS, DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which, because of its aggressive nature, training or
characteristic behavior, is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or
death to humans, and which would constitute a danger to human life or property
if it were not kept in the manner required by this subchapter.
      (2)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attach on public or private property.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing,
harboring or having the care or custody, whether temporarily or permanently, of
a dog.
   UNTAGGED ANIMALS. An animal is considered to be untagged if a valid license
tag is not attached to a collar which is kept on the animal.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or otherwise threaten the safety of human beings
or domestic animals; or any dog, which without provocation, attacks or bites,
or has attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic animal; or any dog owned
or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose of dog fighting or any dog
trained for dog fighting, or any dog which has been found to be vicious by the
court in a trial or hearing upon a charge of harboring a vicious animal.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 90.056 VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall harbor, keep or maintain within the city limits any vicious
dog. Any dog alleged to be vicious by virtue of an attack upon a human being or
domestic animal shall be impounded as directed by the Police Department until
disposition of the charge issued by citation. Moreover, the owner of any dog
found to be vicious in the trial of a charge of harboring a vicious dog, or by
plea to such a charge, shall be prohibited from returning that dog to the city
or keeping that dog in the city.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.057 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   Any person having knowledge which he or she believes constitutes probable
cause to believe that another is harboring, keeping or maintaining a dangerous
dog which is not registered with and licensed by the city in accordance with
this subchapter, shall file with the Police Department a sworn affidavit,
setting forth the basis on which they believe the animal to be a dangerous dog,
the name and address of the owner of the dog, and a description of the dog. The
Police Department shall, upon receipt of such affidavit, inquire of the City
Clerk if the dog is currently registered as a dangerous dog pursuant to this
subchapter within. If the dog is not registered, the City Clerk shall notify
the Police Department of this fact and the Police Department shall serve notice
upon the owner of the alleged dangerous dog, which notice shall include the
requirement that the owner shall bring the alleged dangerous dog to the
veterinarian stated in the aforementioned notice for inspection to determine
whether this dog is a dangerous dog by definition as set forth in this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.058 HARBORING OR RETURN OF VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall return to or harbor within the city limits a dog previously
determined by any court to be a vicious dog. The disposition of such a dog
shall be in accordance with this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.059 EXCEPTION.
   No dog shall be declared to be a vicious dog if the injury or damages was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was teasing, tormenting, abusing or
assaulting the dog, or which dog was protecting a human being from attack by
another animal or by a human being.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.060 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All owners of any dogs shall, on or before, January 1, 2008 and within
30 days of acquiring a dog thereafter, register their dog and provide a current
color photograph of the dog with the City Clerk’s office and pay a registration
fee of $10. At the time of registration, each owner of any dangerous dog kept
within the city limits shall provide to the City Clerk’s office proof of
liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 for any acts of property
damage or liability incurred by virtue of injury inflicted by such dog. Upon
payment of the fee, the City Clerk shall issue a receipt of registration as
proof of registration.
   (B)   An owner of a dog who fails to register the dog is subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 per day.
   (C)   An owner of a dangerous dog who registers but neglects to have the
dangerous dog insured is subject to a forfeiture of not less than $250, nor
more than $750 per day.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.061 REQUIREMENTS OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   While on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure,
suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. Such pen or structure must have a minimum dimension of
five feet by ten feet and must have secure sides and a secure top. If it has no
bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less
than two feet. The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for
the dog.
   (B)   The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises facing
out from all sides of the premises warning that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. This sign should be visible and capable of being read from a public
highway or thoroughfare or within 20 feet of its placement. In addition, the
owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a symbol warning children who
cannot read of the presence of a dangerous dog.
   (C)   A dangerous dog may be off the owner’s premises if it is muzzled and
restrained by an approved lead or chain not exceeding three feet in length and
is under the control of an adult, able-bodied person. The muzzle must be made
in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision
or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any person or animal.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter regarding dangerous and vicious dogs
shall not apply to animals owned by law enforcement agencies and used for law
enforcement purposes.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-7)
§ 90.062 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such persons, as from time to time may be
designated by resolution of the City Council, to apprehend any unlicensed dogs.
The Police Department shall, whenever possible, see that such dogs are,
transferred to a designated kennel at the earliest possible date, where the
dogs may be taken care of and reclaimed by the owner under the rules and
regulations of said kennel. When the dog is impounded by the city before being
transferred to a kennel, the owner reclaiming the dog shall be required to pay
$25 to the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department and such other persons,
as from time to time may be designated by resolution of the City Council, to
apprehend any dangerous dogs running at large. Any dangerous dog found running
at large shall be impounded and may be returned to its owner only upon proof of
registration as a dangerous dog. A police officer may shoot a dog if the dog
attacks the officer or approaches the officer in a menacing fashion so that the
officer believes that the dog is about to attack.
   (C)   In any event, when a dog is impounded, the impounding authority shall
give notice to the owners of the impoundment and advise the owners whether and
under what circumstances the dog may be redeemed. The owner of any animal
impounded, confined or destroyed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall
be responsible for all costs of such confinement, impoundment or destruction.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.063 REMOVAL OF DOG PENDING LITIGATION.
   Whenever any person is charged with harboring a vicious dog as defined in
this subchapter, that person shall, to the satisfaction of the court, remove
said dog from the city until the trial of the citation. If the owner fails to
remove the dog within 48 hours of the service of the citation, the Police
Department shall impound the dog until the trial on the citation. If the dog is
determined by plea or trial to be a vicious dog provided by this subchapter, it
shall not be returned to or kept in the city. Any dog returned to or kept in
the city, after being determined to be a vicious dog, constitutes a public
nuisance as pursuant to Chapter 94 of this code.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-9)
§ 90.064 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All dogs shall be licensed as provided by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-10)
§ 90.065 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation of this subchapter occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this
subchapter shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, handling,
veterinary care and expert testimony fees necessitated by enforcement of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 3-3-11) (Ord. 13-07, passed 10-23-2007)
CAT CODE
§ 90.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH.  The Board of Health of the county.
   CAT. Applies to both male and female cats.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH.  The Department of Health of the county.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Health or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   HOBBY KENNEL OR CATTERY. Any kennel where cats are kept for organized shows,
breeding for exhibition or for the enjoyment of the household.
   INOCULATION, VACCINATION or VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a cat
with a vaccine approved by the Department of Health for use in the prevention
of rabies.
   KEEP or HARBOR. Habitually permitting to remain or to be lodged or to be fed
within the house, store, yard, enclosure or other place.
   KENNEL. The house, store yard, enclosure or place where two or more weaned,
unspayed or unneutered cats are harbored or kept; provided, however, this
definition shall not apply to spayed female cats, nor to the animal shelter or
to animal hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the laws of
the state keeping cats for others for treatment or boarding.
   OWN. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, shall be deemed to mean and
include own, keep, harbor or have charge, custody or control of a cat.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a cat.
   PERSON. Include any individual, firm, corporation association or
partnership.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of
the owner or a member of his or her immediate family.
   WARDEN. The person in charge of enforcing this code and appointed by the
Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 90.081 VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED; VACCINATION TAG.
   Any person within the city owning a cat six months of age or older shall
have such cat vaccinated once each year against rabies. Each unvaccinated cat
acquired or moved into the municipality must be vaccinated within 30 days after
purchase or arrival, provided that no cat under six months of age shall be
required to be vaccinated until it reaches the age of six months. It shall be
the duty of every veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating any cat, to provide
a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate to the warden and to provide a
rabies vaccination tag to the owner. The rabies vaccination tag shall be
attached to and kept upon the collar or harness of the cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.082 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to own a cat over six
months of age without procuring a license for such cat as provided in this
code.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.083 LICENSE TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat to permit or allow such cat to
wear any license tag issued for another cat or for another year.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.084 INFORMATION REQUIRED; RECEIPT; TAG.
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made to the Director, and the
following information, including presentation of a valid rabies certificate
showing that the cat has been immunized for rabies shall be furnished:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner or harborer of such cat;
      (2)   Such description of the cat as may be required for the purpose of
identification; and
      (3)   The license number of the tag issued.
   (B)   The warden shall furnish to the owner, upon payment of the license
fees as hereinafter required, a license receipt showing thereon such
information and metallic tag bearing the tag number, the license year for which
issued and the words “Cat Tag” engraved thereon.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 90.085 CATS RUNNING AT LARGE WHILE IN HEAT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any owner, keeper or harborer of any
female cat to permit such cat to run at large while in heat, whether or not a
valid registration tag is attached.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.086 WEARING OF COLLARS; REMOVAL OF LICENSE TAG.
   Each licensed cat must wear a collar bearing the license tag and rabies
vaccination tag. This is the owner’s responsibility. It shall be unlawful for
any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the collar, harness or metallic
license tag or rabies vaccination tag from any licensed cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.087 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any cat running at large in violation of the provisions of this code
is declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be impounded by the Director as
in this chapter provided, or if the residence of the owner of such cat is
determined by the capturing animal control officer before such cat is delivered
to the animal shelter, such cat may be delivered to the owner upon said owner’s
written acceptance of delivery upon a form to be provided by the Director. If
such cat is so delivered to the owner, an impoundment fee of $10 shall be paid
by the owner to Director within five days of delivery, and failure to pay said
fee shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
   (B)   The warden shall not release any such cat from being impounded until
the owner of the cat shall have obtained a license as provided in this code.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.088 CATS INJURING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, or allow to be in or upon
any premises occupied by him or her or under his or her charge or control, any
cat that in any manner injures or destroys any real or personal property of any
description belonging to another.
   (B)   If, upon the trial of any offense mentioned in this section, it shall
appear to the Municipal Judge that the person be guilty as charged in said
complaint, said Judge may, in addition to the usual judgment of conviction,
order the person so offending to make restitution to the party injured in an
amount equal to the value of the property so injured or destroyed.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.089 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for all cats shall be the sum of $7.50; provided, however,
the license fee for all spayed female cats and neutered male cats shall be the
sum of $2.50. Further provided, the license fee for a cat owned by an
individual 65 years of age or older shall be the sum of $5; however, the
license fee charged to such owner shall be $1.50 if the cat is a spayed female
or a neutered male. In addition to such fee, any expired license which is
renewed later than January 1 following the expiration date shall not be renewed
until the late fee of $2 is paid by the owner.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-10)
§ 90.090 HOBBY KENNEL OR CATTERY PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or maintain a hobby kennel
or cattery within the municipality without first having obtained a hobby kennel
or cattery permit from the warden as herein provided.
   (B)   Any person having a hobby kennel or cattery shall make application to
the warden for the permit.
   (C)   Upon a finding by the warden that the premises are in compliance with
the law and upon payment of the permit fee, said permit will be issued.
      (1)   Permits are not transferable from one person to another person or
place.
      (2)   A permit holder shall notify the warden of any change in his or her
operations which may affect the status of his or her permit and shall keep the
warden apprised of any change in name or location of his or her kennel.
      (3)   The hobby kennel or cattery permit shall expire December 31 of the
calendar year for which it is issued. All permits shall be due January 1 of
each year and shall expire on December 31 following year.
      (4)   The permit fee shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each kennel with two to ten cats: $35;
         (b)   For each kennel with 11 to 18 cats: $50; and
         (c)   For each kennel with 19 cats or more: $5 per cat.
      (5)   The above permit fee shall be in lieu of the license fee for
individual cats as provided for hereinbefore in this code.
   (D)   Any decision of the warden under the provisions of this section may be
appealed to the corporate authorities, which shall hear and render a decision
in this matter.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.091 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF SANITATION.
   (A)   Animal housing facilities shall be constructed of nontoxic materials
and in a structurally sound design. The facility shall be kept in good repair
and kept clean and sanitary at all times, so as to protect animals from disease
and injury.
   (B)   Animals maintained in pens, cages or runs for periods exceeding 24
hours shall be provided with adequate space to prevent overcrowding and to
maintain normal exercise according to species. Cages are to be of material and
construction that permit cleaning and sanitizing.
   (C)   Indoor housing: these facilities shall be sufficiently temperature
controlled and ventilated to provide for the animals comfort and health.
   (D)   Outside housing or enclosures shall allow adequate protection against
weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs and wall shall be of an impervious
material to permit proper cleaning and disinfection. Outside runs must be
within a yard with an additional or separate fence around it, and screened from
view by either plantings or the additional fence.
   (E)   Provisions shall be made for the removal and proper disposal of animal
and food waste, bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal facilities shall be
provided and so operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors and disease
hazards.
   (F)   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in a
sanitary condition.
   (G)   The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome, palatable and of
sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements
for the condition and size of the animal.
   (H)   All animals shall have fresh water available at all times. Water
vessels shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner that
prevents tipping and be of the removable type.
   (I)   Each cat shall be observed daily by the cat caretaker in charge or his
or her representative. Sick, diseased, injured, lame or blind animals shall be
provided with proper veterinary care.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.092 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   The warden shall deposit all monies received by him or her under this code
with the Municipal Treasurer, who shall credit the deposits to the Animal
Control Fund.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-13)
§ 90.093 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this code shall expire on December 31 of the
calendar year for which issued. All licenses hereunder shall be due January 1
of each year and shall expire in December 31 following.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-14)
§ 90.094 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of the provisions of this code shall be under the direction
of the animal control warden. For the purpose of enforcing this code, the
warden or any animal control warden or police officer may obtain a search
warrant or other appropriate court order to permit entering private premises.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-15)
§ 90.095 POISONING OR INJURING CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer, or cause to be
administered, poison of any sort whatsoever to any cat, or to neglect, or in
any manner to mistreat, injure, maim or destroy, except as elsewhere in this
chapter specifically authorized, or in any manner to attempt to mistreat,
injure, maim or destroy a cat of another, or to place any poison, poisoned food
or poisoned bait where the same is accessible to any cat. This section shall
not be interpreted to prohibit an act of a licensed veterinarian in causing a
cat’s death in a humane manner with the approval of the owner of the cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.096 DUTY TO PLACE CAT UNDER OBSERVATION; WHEN REQUIRED; PROCEDURE.
   When any person owning a cat has been notified by any person injured or by
someone in his or her behalf, or by someone with knowledge of said injury, that
the person has been bitten or attacked by said cat, or when any person owning a
cat has been notified by any person that said cat has been bitten by a rabid
animal, the owner shall immediately place the cat under the care and
observation of the Director or of a licensed veterinarian within the
municipality with the expense thereof to be borne by the owner of such cat; and
failure of the owner to submit said cat or other animal within 24 hours after
notice of said bite or attack to the Director or a veterinarian within the city
constitutes a violation of this chapter. The warden or licensed veterinarian
shall impound said cat for care and observation for a period of ten days in
compliance with standards adopted by the corporate authorities. It shall be
lawful for the warden or an agent of the warden, to destroy in a humane manner
any cat that has been determined by the Director to have rabies, or that has
been impounded for observation after the period of observation has expired
unless the owner shall, within five days after notice has been given, redeem
such cat by paying such expense incident to such impounding, observation or
treatment. It shall be illegal for any person to release any cat held for
observation to any person prior to expiration of the period of observation.
Before any such cat shall be released the person to whom it is released shall
submit proof in the form of a certificate issued by a license veterinarian or
other person authorized by law to administer rabies inoculation that such cat
does not have rabies and has been properly inoculated for rabies. Such
impounded cat may be released temporarily directly by a licensed veterinarian.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.097 HOLDING IMPOUNDED CATS.
   (A)   Any cat impounded because of not being properly licensed shall be held
by the warden for not less than 72 hours, unless sooner redeemed or released as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The warden shall notify the owner of any cat impounded if such owner’s
identity and address can be ascertained upon reasonable investigation. Such
notice shall be given within 24 hours after such cat is impounded under any of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The notice shall inform the owner that the cat has been impounded, the
purpose or reason for such impounding, and the requirements to permit release
of the cat.
      (1)   Any cat remaining in the shelter unclaimed or not redeemed at the
expiration of the time limit of 72 hours may be destroyed in a humane manner,
unless in the judgment of the warden a suitable home may be found for such cat.
      (2)   In the event the warden shall find a suitable home for such cat
within the municipality, the person taking such cat shall first procure from
said warden a license and metallic tag for that particular cat as provided for
hereinbefore in this code. The warden is not required to charge for the sale of
the cat, except for a charge for license fee and, if such cat is six months of
age or older and has not had a vaccination for rabies as required by this code,
the person receiving the cat must have the cat vaccinated for rabies at that
person’s expense.
      (3)   The humane society or like institution with whom the warden has
contracted to enforce the provisions of this code, may sell and transfer to a
new owner any cat impounded in the animal shelter after the expiration of the
time limit as set by this section, if such new owner procures a license and
metallic tag for that particular cat under the provisions of this chapter. The
proceeds of sale of any such cat shall be applied to any impoundment fees owing
on the cat by the city, and any excess proceeds may be retained by the humane
society. This division (C)(3) shall not be interpreted to prohibit the humane
society from giving away any cat.
      (4)   Any impounded cat placed with a new owner shall be neutered or
spayed within 15 days after release from impoundment, except for cats under six
months of age. Payment for neutering must be made at the time of release and
will be forwarded to a licensed veterinarian who will present a statement
signed by the veterinarian and the owner stating that the surgery has been
performed.
      (5)   The owner of any cat which is impounded and destroyed under this
code shall be held responsible for payment of the impoundment fee set out in
this code, plus the expense incident to the impoundment for observation
required by this code, and shall pay such fee or expense to the warden within
15 days after destruction of such cat.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-18)
§ 90.098 SHELTER FEE; RELEASE FROM SHELTER.
   (A)   Any cat held or impounded in the animal shelter because of the
violation of any of the provisions of this code by its owner, shall be released
to the owner thereof by the warden upon proof of ownership of such cat and upon
presentation of the license and valid rabies certificate for the current year
showing that such cat has been properly licensed and inoculated for rabies, and
further upon the payment of a shelter fee of $10.
   (B)   All cats which shall have remained in the shelter 72 hours without
being claimed or released may be destroyed in a humane manner, except as
hereinbefore provided.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.099 WARDEN’S DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the warden or his or her assistants to do the
following acts:
      (1)   Establish and maintain, or supervise under contract, an animal
shelter at some convenient location, which shall be kept sanitary, properly
heated, ventilated and lighted;
      (2)   Properly house, feed, water and care for all cats confined in the
animal shelter;
      (3)   Enforce the licensing of all cats in the municipality as
hereinbefore provided;
      (4)   Issue citations in the Municipal Court against any person failing
to license any cat as hereinbefore provided; or
      (5)   Capture and secure all cats running at large contrary to the
provisions of this code and remove such cats in a humane manner to the animal
shelter.
   (B)   Whenever there is any violation of any provision of this code, the
warden or any of his or her assistants finding such violation shall, except as
otherwise provided, take the name and address of such person violating such
provision and the description of the cat owned by him or her and issue a
summons or citation or otherwise notify him or her in writing to appear in
court at a time and place to be specified in such summons or notice. Such
hearing shall be at least five days after the notice, unless such person shall
demand an earlier hearing.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disregard a summons issued as
provided herein, or to fail to appear in court as provided by such summons or
citation. A warning ticket may be issued in lieu of such summons or citation.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.100 WARDEN’S RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The warden shall keep an accurate account of all cats received by him
or her at the shelter and released by him or her to the owner or purchaser,
showing the date and from whom received, the description of the cat, the name
and address of the person or persons releasing or purchasing.
   (B)   He or she shall keep a like accurate account and description of all
cats destroyed by him or her.
   (C)   On the last day of each month, the shelter manager shall forward to
the Director an accurate and complete account of all monies received by him or
her during the month under the provisions of this code, together with a
statement of the number of cats in the shelter at the first of the month, the
number received, the number destroyed, the number released or sold, and the
number on hand at the end of the month.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-21)
§ 90.101 IMPOUNDING TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the warden to destroy or cause or permit to be
destroyed any cat impounded until the expiration of impounding time limit of 72
hours, except that the warden may, when in his or her judgment, a cat so
impounded is suffering from any injury or disease and recovery is doubtful,
destroy such cat in a humane manner.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.102 RECEIVING CATS AT SHELTER; REGISTRATION.
   The warden shall not receive a cat into the shelter from any person, unless
such person shall give his or her full name and place of residence, which shall
be registered in a proper book kept by the shelter manager. It shall be
unlawful for any person delivering to or receiving any cat from said shelter,
to give any false information concerning the same.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.103 INTERFERENCE WITH CAPTURE OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with or
obstruct the warden while engaged in capturing, securing or taking to the
animal shelter any cat or cats subject to be impounded, or to break open or in
any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of
any animal shelter, or any ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of cats to the shelter.
(1999 Code, § 3-4-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
Cemetery Department
   
91.01   Department created
   
91.02   Employees
   
91.03   Duties of the Sexton
Regulations
   
91.15   Removal of same
   
91.16   Application of city laws
   
91.17   Unlawful entry
   
91.18   Trespass, loitering; exceptions
   
91.19   Speed of vehicles
   
91.20   Operation of vehicles and parking
   
91.21   Grave decorations (flowers)
   
91.22   Rubbish and debris
   
91.23   Property damage
   
91.24   Trees, shrubs and flowers
   
91.25   Hours
Cemetery Charges
   
91.40   Cost of grave lot
   
91.41   Grave lot preparation and cremation
   
91.42   Fees to Perpetual Fund
CEMETERY DEPARTMENT
§ 91.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a City Cemetery Department.
   (B)   The Department shall consist of the Sexton and such other employees as
the City Council may from time to time deem necessary to implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Department shall be under the general supervision of the Cemetery
Committee.
(1999 Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 91.02 EMPLOYEES.
   The Sexton and any and all employees shall be appointed in accordance with
the provisions of §
31.085. The Sexton shall take an oath of office as an appointed officer of the
city as provided by §
31.053.
(1999 Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 91.03 DUTIES OF THE SEXTON.
   The Sexton shall exercise general management and control of the Cemetery
Department.
   (A)   He or she shall supervise over and be responsible for the conduct and
performance of all employees of said Department as a department head in
accordance with the Personnel Code.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for the maintenance of the city
cemetery.
   (C)   He or she shall be the custodian of all vehicles, equipment,
structures and property provided by the city for the use of said Department.
   (D)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the provisions of this code or by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 9-1-3)
REGULATIONS
§ 91.15 REMOVAL OF SAME.
   The Sexton or other appropriate personnel of the city are hereby authorized
to pick up and dispose of flowers and grave decorations which are left on
graves in violation of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 9-73, passed - -)
§ 91.16 APPLICATION OF CITY LAWS.
   All provisions of the city code now in force or hereafter enacted, relating
to and defining public offenses in the city shall, insofar as the same shall be
applicable, be in full force and effect in the city cemetery.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-2)
§ 91.17 UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than duly authorized
officers, officials or employees of the city, to enter into or be upon the
cemetery grounds of the city during the time after sunset and before sunrise of
any day without first obtaining the permission of the city officer in charge of
said cemetery. It shall further be unlawful at all times for any person to
enter or leave the grounds other than by the established and open entrances or
gateways.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.18 TRESPASS, LOITERING; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or trespass upon lots and
graves of the city cemetery; provided, nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit any person having lawful business in the cemetery in connection with
improvement thereof or persons visiting the graves of relatives or friends from
being in the cemetery in accordance with the rules.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 SPEED OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in the cemetery
faster than ten mph.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND PARKING.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the cemetery except over a
roadway open for vehicular traffic, or obstruct any path or driveway within the
cemetery open to vehicular traffic. No person shall use the cemetery grounds or
any driveway therein as a public thoroughfare or drive any vehicle through said
grounds, except for purposes of making deliveries in the cemetery or visiting
any grave site.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 GRAVE DECORATIONS (FLOWERS).
   The placing of cut flowers, plastic flowers or other decorative items over
individual graves shall be permitted; however, the city shall not be
responsible for the care of such decorations. Further, the city shall remove,
without notice, all flowers, real or artificial, and decorations that remain
over ten days.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-7)
§ 91.22 RUBBISH AND DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any rubbish, trash, waste
materials, litter or debris of any kind in the city cemetery.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.23 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   No person shall remove, molest, injure, mar, deface, throw down or destroy
any headstone, monument, survey marker, corner marker, tomb, vault or
mausoleum, or decoration on any cemetery grave in the cemetery, or open,
disturb or molest any grave or place of burial therein. This shall not prohibit
acts by cemetery officers and employees, or public officials, in carrying out
their duties.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 TREES, SHRUBS AND FLOWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to plant any tree, shrub or
other plant in the cemetery, except those permitted by the general landscape
plan approved by the city governing body. It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person to cut down, injure, break or destroy any tree, shrub or
other plant growing in the cemetery or to pick, pluck or cut any flower or
decorative plant, except as authorized by the cemetery rules.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.25 HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or trespass in the city
cemetery between the following hours, during the applicable months:
   (A)   From April 1 to October 31, 9:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.; and
   (B)   From November 1 to March 31, 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
(1999 Code, § 9-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CEMETERY CHARGES
§ 91.40 COST OF GRAVE LOT.
   The charge per lot(s) in the city cemetery are established as follows.
   (A)   Eight grave lots: $1,600.
   (B)   Four grave lots: $800.
   (C)   Two grave lots: $400.
   (D)   One grave lot: $200.
(1999 Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 10-07, passed 8-14-2007)
§ 91.41 GRAVE LOT PREPARATION AND CREMATION.
   The charges for specific services are as follows.
   (A)   Grave opening preparation fee: $100.
   (B)   Cremation burial fee: $200.
   (C)   Cremation burial fee; weekends and holidays: $250.
(1999 Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 10-07, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 18-19, passed 8-27-
2019)
§ 91.42 FEES TO PERPETUAL FUND.
   All monies received from the sale of cemetery graves, pursuant to §
91.40, as amended; received from grave opening charges, pursuant to §
91.41, as amended; and donations received for the care of the cemetery shall be
deposited in a separate fund to be known as the City Cemetery Perpetual Fund
and shall be used solely for the maintenance and care of the city cemetery. No
monies may be removed from the fund, either income or principle, until the Fund
reaches $25,000, at that time any funds over $25,000 may be spent for needed
city cemetery maintenance and care. The $25,000 shall be maintained as an
emergency fund in case of unforeseen events and may be used for such purposes
with the City Council’s specific direction. The minimum $25,000 amount, if
used, is to be restored to its minimum amount pursuant to the procedure
provided in this section.
(1999 Code, § 9-3-3)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Statement of policy
   
92.02   Purpose and scope
   
92.03   Jurisdiction
   
92.04   Selected definitions
   
92.05   Effect on other rights
   
92.06   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibitions Against Discriminatory Housing Practices
   
92.20   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.21   Discrimination in the incidents of sale
   
92.22   Discriminatory advertising of housing
   
92.23   Misrepresenting availability of housing
   
92.24   Blockbusting prohibited
   
92.25   Steering prohibited
   
92.26   Discrimination in financing housing
   
92.27   Membership in real estate organizations
   
92.28   Interference with others’ rights
Administration
   
92.40   Human Relations Commission established
   
92.41   Incidents of office
   
92.42   Meetings
   
92.43   Rule-making
   
92.44   Budget
   
92.45   Complaints
   
92.46   Answers
   
92.47   Investigation and conciliation
   
92.48   Consent agreements
   
92.49   Hearing
   
92.50   Decision
   
92.51   Rehearing
   
92.52   Enforcement
   
92.53   Appeals
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   When certain individuals are treated differently in the housing market
because of racial, religious or other prejudices, the entire community suffers.
   (B)   Discrimination frequently denies its immediate victims their right to
acquire a decent home in a safe and pleasant neighborhood. Discrimination also
typically causes neighborhoods to become highly segregated, and engenders
instability on the fringes of such areas. This instability seriously impairs
any sense of community responsibility and accelerates neighborhood decay.
Neighborhood decay reduces the housing supply and deflates the tax base.
Concurrently, it increases the need for government services and necessitates a
higher tax rate.
   (C)   Although discrimination in housing is proscribed by the United States
and Illinois Constitutions and by various federal laws, the problem is best
handled at the local level because: there is no state-wide enforcement program;
and the federal enforcement machinery is disturbingly slow, inadequate and
sometimes simply unresponsive to local needs.
   (D)   In light of the above, the Council hereby declares that it is the
public policy of this municipality to endeavor to ensure all person an equal
opportunity to provide for themselves a home of their own choosing that is as
sufficient as their individual talents, industry and circumstances may permit.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-11-1.1
§ 92.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this code is to implement the policy set forth above by:
   (A)   Prohibiting discrimination based on race, color, creed, ancestry,
national origin or physical or mental handicap in the marketing, disposition
and financing of housing; and
   (B)   Establishing procedures for the fair and efficient administration and
enforcement of such regulations.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-2)
§ 92.03 JURISDICTION.
   This code shall be applicable within the corporate limits of this
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-3)
§ 92.04 SELECTED DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Human Relations Commission of this municipality (or any
other agency designated by the Council to administer this code).
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof containing one or more dwelling
units, or any parcel of land offered for sale or lease for the construction or
placement of such building.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any bank, savings and loan association, insurance
company, or any other person or firm whose business consists, in whole or in
part, of making or guaranteeing loans.
   HOUSING. Synonym for DWELLING.
   RENT. To lease, sublease, let or otherwise grant or receive for
consideration the right to occupy any dwelling not owned by the occupant.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-4)
§ 92.05 EFFECT ON OTHER RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this code shall prevent any person from exercising any right or
seeking any remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-5)
§ 92.06 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
official, Commission member, agent or employee of this municipality shall
render himself or herself personally, liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this code.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any official, Commission member, agent or
employee of this municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in
the discharge of his or her duties under this code, shall be defended by the
City Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1999 Code, § 14-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.
PROHIBITIONS AGAINST DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES
§ 92.20 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to sell or rent, or to otherwise make
unavailable, any dwelling to any person on the basis of race, color, creed,
ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 DISCRIMINATION IN THE INCIDENTS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to discriminate against any person on the basis of
race, color, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap
with respect to:
   (A)   The terms, conditions or privileges of sale rental of any dwelling; or
   (B)   The provision of information, services or facilities in connection
with the sale or rental of any dwelling.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DISCRIMINATORY ADVERTISING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful to print or publish any statement or advertisement
that, with respect to the sale or rental of any dwelling, indicates any
discrimination or intent to discriminate against any person on the basis of
race, color, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 MISREPRESENTING AVAILABILITY OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful to represent to any person because of his or her race,
color, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap that any
dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when said dwelling is,
in fact, available therefor.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 BLOCKBUSTING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful, for profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person
to sell or rent any dwelling by making representations (whether true or false)
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood in which said
dwelling is located of persons of a particular race, color, creed, ancestry or
national origin.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 STEERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful, for profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person
to refrain from buying or renting a dwelling:
   (A)   By making representations (whether true or false) regarding the race,
color, creed, ancestry or national origin of occupants or prospective occupants
of other dwellings in the neighborhood wherein said dwelling is located; or
   (B)   By showing said potential buyer and/or renter available dwellings only
in certain neighborhoods on account of race, color, creed, ancestry or national
origin.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING HOUSING.
   (A)   Discrimination against applicant directly. It shall be unlawful for
any financial institution to discriminate against any applicant on the basis of
his or her race, color, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental
handicap with respect to:
      (1)   The approval and/or provision of any loan or other financial
assistance for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining any dwelling; or
      (2)   Any term or condition of said loan and/or financial assistance
including, but not limited to, loan amount, down payment, earnest money,
duration of loan, interest rate and/or closing costs.
   (B)   Discrimination against applicant’s associates, redlining. It shall be
unlawful for any financial institution to discriminate with respect to the
matters indicated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above on the basis of the
race, color, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap
of:
      (1)   The applicant’s personal or business associates;
      (2)   Any person having any interest in the dwelling or financial
transaction in question;
      (3)   The present or prospective occupants of said dwelling; or
      (4)   The present or prospective residents of the neighborhood in which
said dwelling is located.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 MEMBERSHIP IN REAL ESTATE ORGANIZATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed,
ancestry, national origin or physical handicap with respect to access to or
membership or participation in:
   (A)   Any multiple-listing service;
   (B)   Real estate brokers’ organization; or
   (C)   Any other service, organization or facility connected with the
business of buying, selling or renting dwellings.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 INTERFERENCE WITH OTHERS’ RIGHTS.
   (A)   Interference. It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or
interfere with any person:
      (1)   In the exercise or enjoyment of any right protected by this code,
or because he or she has exercised and/or enjoyed any such right, or because he
or she intends to do so; or
      (2)   In the aiding or encouraging of another person to exercise or enjoy
any fight protected by this code, or because he or she has proffered such aid
and/or encouragement, or because he or she intends to do so.
   (B)   Harassment. It shall be unlawful to knowingly make false statements,
allegations or complaints concerning violations of this code.
(1999 Code, § 14-2-9) Penalty, see §
92.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 92.40 HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The Human Relations Commission of this municipality (the “Commission”) is
hereby established. The Commission is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce this code in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-1)
§ 92.41 INCIDENTS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Membership, appointment, term.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of five members, all of whom shall
reside in this municipality.
      (2)   Each member shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Council to serve a three-year term; provided, that initial
appointees shall serve as follows: one for a one-year term, two for two-year
terms and two for three-year terms.
   (B)   Removal, vacancy. With the advice and consent of the City Council, the
Mayor may remove any Commission member for cause after a public hearing.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose place has
become vacant in the same manner as provided for the appointment of members at
the beginning of a term.
   (C)   Officers. The Commission shall elect one of its members to serve as
Chairperson, and may elect such other officers as it deems necessary.
   (D)   Compensation. Commission members shall receive no compensation for
their services.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-2)
§ 92.42 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Who may call. Commission meetings may be called by the Chairperson or
by any two members, upon 48 hours written notice to any member who was not
present when the decision to hold a meeting was made.
   (B)   Quorum. Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, and
the affirmative vote of at least three members shall be necessary to authorize
any official Commission action.
   (C)   Records. The Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
indicating the absence of any member, the vote of each member on each question,
and any official action taken. These minutes shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and shall be a public record.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-3)
§ 92.43 RULE-MAKING.
   The Commission may make such additional rules as necessary to fairly and
efficiently perform its duties under this code. Such rules shall not become
effective until approved by the Council.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-4)
§ 92.44 BUDGET.
   This municipality shall allocate funds in its annual appropriations
ordinance to defray necessary Commission expenses.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-5)
§ 92.45 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Who may file. Complaints against any person who allegedly has or is
about to violate this code may be filed with the Commission by:
      (1)   Any Commission member;
      (2)   Any aggrieved person; or
      (3)   Any person who will be irrevocably injured by an imminent
violation.
   (B)   Filing fee. There shall be no charge for filing a complaint.
   (C)   Form/contents of complaint. Complaints shall be written on forms
provided by the Commission, and shall include:
      (1)   Name, address, phone number (if any), and signature of the
complainant; and
      (2)   Concise statement of the facts on which the complaint is based.
   (D)   Time limit amendment. Any complaint shall be filed not later than 60
days after the alleged violation. With the Commission’s permission, complaints
may be amended at any time.
   (E)   Service. The Commission shall cause a copy of the complaint and any
amendments thereto to be served on the alleged violator either personally or by
registered mail.
   (F)   Complaints. Complaints shall be served as promptly as possible, and in
every case not later than concurrently with the Commission’s written findings
of its investigation. See §
92.47.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-6)
§ 92.46 ANSWERS.
   (A)   Who may file. Any person against whom a complaint has been filed may
file an answer with the Commission.
   (B)   Form/contents of answer. Answers shall be in writing, and shall
include:
      (1)   Name, address, phone number (if any), and signature of the
respondent; and
      (2)   Concise statement of the facts on which the answer is based.
   (C)   Time limit; amendments. Answers shall be filed not later than five
days before the hearing unless, upon written request, the Commission permits a
later filing for good cause. Answers may be amended at any time by permission
of the Commission.
   (D)   Copy to complainant. The Commission shall transmit a copy of the
answer and any amendments thereto to the complainant as promptly as possible,
and in every case prior to the hearing.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-7)
§ 92.47 INVESTIGATION AND CONCILIATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall promptly investigate each complaint to determine
whether there are reasonable grounds for believing a violation has occurred.
   (B)   The Commission shall state its findings in writing not later than ten
days after the filing of a complaint, and send copies thereof to both the
complainant and the alleged violator.
      (1)   The Commissioner shall dismiss any complaint found to be factually
or legally frivolous, and so notify the parties.
      (2)   If the Commission finds grounds for a complaint, it shall have not
more than 20 days from the date of such finding, or longer, if all parties and
the Commission agree to an extension, in which to attempt to informally
conciliate the matter. Nothing said or done at any conciliation conference
shall be made public unless all parties agree thereto in writing.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-8)
§ 92.48 CONSENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Any terms of conciliation agreed to by the parties or their
representatives shall be incorporated into a written binding consent agreement
signed by all parties and at least one Commission member.
   (B)   The consent agreement shall not constitute an admission that any law
or ordinance was violated.
   (C)   Nevertheless, failure to adhere to any provision of a consent
agreement shall be a separate violation of this code.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-9)
§ 92.49 HEARING.
   (A)   When held. The Commission shall hold a hearing on the matter
complained of within 20 days after:
      (1)   The violation of any consent agreement;
      (2)   The expiration of the period for informal conciliation unless a
consent agreement has been reached; or
      (3)   Any date on which the Commission determines that informal
conciliation will not be successful and so notifies the parties in writing
whichever occurs first.
   (B)   Notice. The Commission shall cause written notice to be sent to all
involved parties by registered mail at their last known address not later than
ten days prior to the hearing. Said notice shall specify the time, date, place
and purpose of the hearing.
   (C)   Powers; procedures. The hearing shall normally be open to the public,
but in particularly sensitive cases, the Commission may hold a private hearing.
The hearing shall be conducted in a fair and impartial manner, but strict
courtroom rules of evidence and procedures need not be observed. The Commission
may subpoena witnesses and pertinent documents, administer oaths and take sworn
testimony. The parties may appear with legal counsel, give testimony, present
other evidence and call and/or cross-examine witnesses. The Commission may
appoint the City Attorney to represent any indigent party. All testimony shall
be given under oath.
   (D)   Records. The Commission shall keep a full record of the hearing. The
record shall be open to inspection by any person. Copies thereof shall be
furnished at cost to the parties upon request.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-10)
§ 92.50 DECISION.
   (A)   Not later than ten days after the hearing, the Commission shall issue
a written decision, including findings of fact based upon the evidence
presented at the hearing.
   (B)   Copies of the Commission’s decision and orders shall be promptly sent
by registered mail to the parties involved.
      (1)   If no violation. If the Commission determines that the respondent
has not violated this code and that a violation by the respondent is not
imminent, it shall dismiss the complaint.
      (2)   If violation. If the Commission finds that the respondent has
violated any provision of this code, it shall assess a penalty in accordance
with §
92.99. Moreover, whether a violation has actually occurred or is merely
imminent, the Commission shall issue a cease and desist order tailored to
correct the problem. The Commission also may require the respondent to take
such affirmative action as it deems necessary and proper to effectuate the
policy this code is intended to implement.
   (C)   Furthermore, the Commission may:
      (1)   In the case of a real estate broker or salesperson, refer said
person to the State Department of Registration and Education and seek
revocation or suspension of his or her license; and
      (2)   In cases involving contracts with the state or federal government,
seek to have said contract terminated or otherwise affected.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-11)
§ 92.51 REHEARING.
   Either party may file a written request for a rehearing within ten days
after the Commission has rendered its decision in accordance with §
92.50. No rehearing shall be granted unless the party requesting the rehearing
did not know, and through the application of reasonable diligence could not
have uncovered, a material fact by the end of the initial hearing.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-12)
§ 92.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Continuing jurisdiction, overseeing. The Commission shall retain
jurisdiction of each case, and periodically monitor compliance activity, until
it is satisfied that full compliance has been achieved.
   (B)   Court enforcement.
      (1)   If any respondent fails or refuses to actively and in good faith
pursue compliance with any Commission order within ten days after said order is
mailed to him or her, the Commission shall seek judicial enforcement thereof.
      (2)   The Commission shall also seek court enforcement of its various
powers (such as its subpoena power) whenever necessary. In all these matters,
the City Attorney is hereby directed to render his or her professional advice
and services to the Commission.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-13)
§ 92.53 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any action or inaction of the Commission may appeal
to the Circuit Court and seek appropriate relief in accordance with the
provisions of 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., the Administrative Review Act.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-15)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500. The exact amount
of fine shall be related to the magnitude of violation and the number and
magnitude of previous violations committed by the offender. The magnitude of
violation is related to the offender’s overall involvement in the real estate
market.
(1999 Code, § 14-3-14)
CHAPTER 93: LIBRARY
Section
   
93.01   Established
   
93.02   Appointment; compensation
   
93.03   Term
   
93.04   Vacancies
   
93.05   Oath of office; organization; meetings
   
93.06   Custodian of funds
   
93.07   Powers and duties
   
93.08   Additional powers and duties
   
93.09   Selection and use of library materials
   
93.10   Free to public
   
93.11   Annual report
   
93.12   Donations
   
93.13   Disturbance prohibited
   
93.14   Injury to or failure to return books
   
93.15   Reference
§ 93.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a public library for the use and benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-1)
§ 93.02 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, with the approval of the City Council, proceed to
appoint a Board of nine Trustees for the public library, chosen from the
citizens at large with reference to their fitness for such office. Not more
than one member of the City Council shall be (at any one time) a member of the
Library Board.
(75 ILCS 5/4-1)
   (B)   Trustees of the Library Board shall serve without compensation, but
shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties from library funds.
(75 ILCS 5/4-5)
(1999 Code, § 20-1-2)
§ 93.03 TERM.
   The Mayor shall, before the July 1 of each year, appoint three Trustees to
take the place of the retiring Trustees who shall hold office for three years
and until their successors are appointed. By and with the advice and consent of
the City Council, the Mayor may remove any Trustee as provided in §
31.086.
(75 ILCS 5/4-1.1) (1999 Code, § 20-1-3)
§ 93.04 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be declared in the office of a Trustee by the Board when the
Trustee declines or is unable to serve, or is absent without cause from all
regular Board meetings for a period of one year, or is convicted of a
misdemeanor for failing, neglecting or refusing to discharge any duty imposed
upon a Trustee or becomes a nonresident of the city, or who fails to pay the
library taxes levied by the corporate authorities.
(75 ILCS 5/4-4) (1999 Code, § 20-1-4)
§ 93.05 OATH OF OFFICE; ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Within 60 days after their appointment, the new Trustees shall take
their oaths of office and meet to organize the Board. The oath shall consist of
the following:
      “I,________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of
the United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Trustee according to the
best of my ability.”
   (B)   The first action taken at the organizational meeting of the Board
shall be the election of a President and a Secretary and such other officers as
the Board may deem necessary, and the Board shall further provide in the by-
laws of the Board as to the length of the terms in office. The Trustees shall
determine the time and place of all official meetings of the Board at which any
legal action may be taken and shall post notice thereof at the public library
maintained by the Board and at not less than one public place within the
corporate confines of the area of library service one day in advance thereof.
(75 ILCS 5/4-6) (1999 Code, § 20-1-5)
§ 93.06 CUSTODIAN OF FUNDS.
   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all funds of the Library Board
of Trustees. The cost of any bond necessary to satisfy the requirements of 75
ILCS 5/4-9 shall be borne by the library.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-6)
§ 93.07 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each Trustee of the City Library Board shall carry out the spirit and intent
of this chapter in establishing, supporting and maintaining a public library or
libraries for providing library service and, in addition to, but without
limiting other powers conferred by this chapter, shall have the following
powers:
   (A)   To make and adopt such by-laws, rules and regulations for their own
guidance and for the government of the library as may be expedient, not
inconsistent with this chapter;
   (B)   To have the exclusive control of the expenditure of all monies
collected for the library and deposited to the credit of the Library Fund;
   (C)   To have the exclusive control of the construction of any library
building and of the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms or
buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose;
   (D)   To purchase or lease real or personal property, and to construct an
appropriate building or buildings for the use of a library established
hereunder, using, at the Board’s option, contracts providing for all or part of
the consideration to be paid through installments at stated intervals during a
certain period not to exceed 20 years with interest on the unpaid balance at
any lawful rate for municipal corporations in this state, except that contracts
for installment purchases of real estate shall provide for not more than 75% of
the total consideration to be repaid by installments, and to refund at any time
any installment contract entered into pursuant to this division (D) by means of
a refunding loan agreement, which may provide for installment payments of
principal and interest to be made at stated intervals during a certain period
not to exceed 20 years from the date of such refunding loan agreement, with
interest on the unpaid principal balance at any lawful rate for municipal
corporations in this state, except that no installment contract or refunding
loan agreement for the same property or construction project may exceed an
aggregate of 20 years;
   (E)   To remodel or reconstruct a building erected or purchased by the
Board, when such building is not adapted to its purposes or needs;
   (F)   To sell or otherwise dispose of any real or personal property that it
deems no longer necessary or useful for library purposes, and to lease to
others any real property not immediately useful, but for which plans for
ultimate use have been or will be adopted; however, the corporate authorities
shall have the first right to purchase or lease;
   (G)   To appoint and to fix the compensation of a qualified librarian, who
shall have the authority to hire such other employees as may be necessary, to
fix their compensation, and to remove such appointees, subject to the approval
of the Board, but these powers are subject to Division I of Article 10 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/10-1-1) in municipalities in which that
Division is in force. The Board may also retain counsel and professional
consultants as needed;
   (H)   To contract with any public or private corporation or entity for the
purpose of providing or receiving library service or of performing any and all
other acts necessary and proper to carry out the responsibilities and the
provisions of this chapter. This power includes, but is not limited to,
participation in interstate library compacts and library systems, and to
contract to supply library services and for the expenditure of any federal or
state funds made available to any county, municipality, township or to the
state for library purposes;
   (I)   To join with the board or boards of any one or more libraries in this
state in maintaining libraries, or for the maintenance of a common library or
common library services for participants, upon such terms as may be agreed upon
by and between the Boards;
   (J)   To enter into contracts and to take title to any property acquired by
it for library purposes by the name and style of the Library Board of Trustees
of the city, and by that name to sue and be sued;
   (K)   To exclude from the use of the library any person who willfully
violates the rules prescribed by the Board;
   (L)    To extend the privileges and use of the library; including the
borrowing of materials on an individual basis by persons residing outside of
the city. If the Board exercises this power, the privilege of library use shall
be upon such terms and conditions as the Board shall, from time to time, by its
regulations, prescribe and for such privileges and use, the Board shall charge
a nonresident fee at least equal to the cost paid by residents of the city,
with the cost to be determined according to the formula established by the
state library. The nonresident fee shall not apply to privilege and use
provided under the terms of the library’s membership in a library system
operating under the provisions of 75 ILCS 10/1 et seq., the State Library
System Act, or under the terms of any reciprocal agreement with a public or
private corporation or entity providing a library service, or to a nonresident
in an unincorporated area in the state who is a student whose household falls
at or below the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s income eligibility guidelines.
The Board may adopt regulations waiving the nonresident fee for persons under
the age of 18;
   (M)   To exercise the power of eminent domain subject to the prior approval
of the corporate authorities under the provisions of 75 ILCS 5/5-1 and 5/2;
   (N)   To join the public library as a member in the Illinois Library
Association and the American Library Association, non-profit, non-political,
(501(c)(3)) associations, as designated by the Federal Internal Revenue
Service, having the purpose of library development and librarianship; to
provide for the payment of annual membership dues, fees and assessments and act
by, through, and in the name of such instrumentality by providing and
disseminating information and research services, employing personnel and doing
any and all other acts for the purpose of improving library development;
   (O)   To accumulate and set apart as reserve funds, portions of the
unexpended balances of the proceeds received annually from taxes or other
sources for the purpose of providing self insurance against liabilities
relating to the public library; and
   (P)   To invest funds pursuant to the 30 ILCS 235/1 et seq.
(75 ILCS 5/4-7) (1999 Code, § 20-1-7)
§ 93.08 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to all other powers and authority now possessed by it, the Board
of Library Trustees shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To lease from any Public Building Commission created pursuant to the
provisions of 50 ILCS 20/1 et seq., the Public Building Commission Act, as now
or hereafter amended, any real or personal property for library purposes for a
period of time not exceeding 20 years;
   (B)   To pay for the use of this leased property in accordance with the
terms of the lease and with the provisions of 50 ILCS 20/1 et seq., the Public
Building Commission Act, as now or hereafter amended;
   (C)   Such lease may be entered into without making a previous appropriation
for the expense thereby incurred; however, if the Board undertakes to pay all
or any part of the costs of operating and maintaining the property of a Public
Building Commission as authorized in division (D) below, such expenses of
operation and maintenance shall be included in the annual budget of such Board
annually during the term of such undertaking; and
   (D)   In addition, the Board may undertake, either in the lease with a
Public Building Commission or by separate agreement or contract with a Public
Building Commission, to pay all or any part of the costs of maintaining and
operating the property of a Public Building Commission for any period of time
not exceeding 40 years.
(75 ILCS 5/4-7.1) (1999 Code, § 20-1-8)
§ 93.09 SELECTION AND USE OF LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   The Board of Library Trustees may establish and review, at least biennially,
a written policy for the selection of library materials and the use of library
materials and facilities. No employee may be disciplined or dismissed for the
selection of library materials when the selection is made in good faith and in
accordance with the written policy required to be established pursuant to this
section.
(75 ILCS 5/4-7.2) (1999 Code, § 20-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 FREE TO PUBLIC.
   The library established shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
city, always subject to such rules and regulations as the Library Board of
Trustees may adopt, in order to render the use of the library and reading room
to the greatest benefit to the greatest number.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.11 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the expiration of each fiscal year of the
municipality, the Library Board of Trustees shall make a report of the
condition of their trust on the last day of the fiscal year to the City
Council.
   (B)   This report shall be made in writing and shall be verified under oath
by the Secretary or some other responsible officer of the Library Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   The report shall contain the following:
      (1)   An itemized statement of the various sums of money received from
the Library Fund and from other sources;
      (2)   An itemized statement of the objects and purposes for which those
sums of money have been expended;
      (3)   A statement of the number of books and periodicals available for
use and the number and character thereof circulated;
      (4)   A statement of the real and personal property acquired by legacy,
purchase, gift or otherwise;
      (5)    A statement of the character of any extensions of library service
which have been undertaken;
      (6)   A statement as to the amount of accumulations and the reasons
therefor;
      (7)   A statement as to any outstanding liabilities including those for
bonds still outstanding or amounts due for judgments, settlements, liability
insurance or for amounts due under a certificate of the Board; and
      (8)   Any other statistics, information and suggestions that may be of
interest. A report shall also be filed at the same time with the state library.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees shall also submit to the City Council, along
with the Illinois State Library, a statement of financial requirements of the
library for the ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the appropriation of the
City Council, and of the amount of money which, in the judgment of the Board,
will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the next annual tax levy
ordinance. This statement shall be submitted no less than 60 days prior to when
the tax levy must be certified under 35 ILCS 200/18-15(b).
(75 ILCS 5/4-10) (1999 Code, § 20-1-11)
§ 93.12 DONATIONS.
   Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property or real
estate for the benefit of such library shall have the right to vest the title
of the money or real estate so donated in the Library Board of Trustees to be
held and controlled by the Board when accepted, according to the terms of the
deed, gift, devise or bequest of such property, and as to such property, the
Board of Trustees shall be held and considered as special Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   Any person who shall create any disturbance while in the rooms of the public
library, or who shall be guilty of any conduct calculated to annoy or disturb
others in said library, and who shall not cease said conduct when requested to
do so by the librarian or other person in charge, shall be subject to arrest
under the provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.14 INJURY TO OR FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS.
   No person shall maliciously cut, injure, deface, tear or destroy any book,
newspaper, periodical or picture belonging to the public library. No person
shall fail to return any book or books taken from the library at the time when,
by the rules of the library, the same should be returned. The person shall
promptly pay the fine provided for by the rules and regulations governing the
library, as the same have been or may be established by the Library Board of
Trustees.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.15 REFERENCE.
   The City Council does hereby include by reference, all provisions of 75 ILCS
5/4 et seq. applicable to the city library that are not provided heretofore.
(1999 Code, § 20-1-15)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Specific nuisances enumerated; nonexclusive
   
94.02   Nuisances detrimental to health generally
   
94.03   Notice to abate
   
94.04   Hearing
   
94.05   Appeal
   
94.06   Abatement by city
   
94.07   Failure to comply with notice
Weeds
   
94.20   Definition
   
94.21   Height
   
94.22   Notice
   
94.23   Service of notice
   
94.24   Abatement
   
94.25   Lien
   
94.26   Payment
   
94.27   Foreclosure of lien
Garbage and Debris
   
94.40   Accumulation prohibited
   
94.41   Notice to person
   
94.42   Service of notice
   
94.43   Abatement
   
94.44   Lien
   
94.45   Payment
   
94.46   Foreclosure of lien
Inoperable Motor Vehicle
   
94.60   Definition
   
94.61   Declaration of nuisance
   
94.62   Notice to owner
   
Appendix A: Notices
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED; NONEXCLUSIVE.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace,
and comfort of the city, for any person, firm or corporation within the limits
of the city to permit the following; but the enumeration of the following
nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive or a limitation on the nuisances
defined above or as determined under other provisions of this code:
   (A)   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal,
filth or noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any
place, to the prejudice of others.
   (B)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake,
pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public highway.
   (C)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome, or impure, the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places.
   (E)   Noxious odors. To erect, continue or use any building or other place
for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture which, by occasioning
noxious exaltations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous
to the health of individuals, or of the public.
   (F)   Litter on streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow trash,
paper, cardboard, wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick, lumber, wood or litter
of material objects of any size or description to fall upon city streets from
any moving vehicle, or to be thrown from a moving vehicle, and to remain
thereon.
   (G)   Accumulations of junk and trash. To deposit, or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage, refuse,
plastic, brush, litter, weeds, building material, appliances, slush, lead,
glass bottles or broken glass upon any lot, piece or parcel of land, or upon
any public alley, street or public way within the city.
   (H)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor or encourage the infestation of rodents.
   (I)   Offensive liquids. To keep any nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or
substance or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive
or putrid, nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed, thrown or to
flow from or out of any premises into or upon any adjacent premises or any
public street or alley, nor permit the same to be done by any person connected
with the premises.
   (J)   Grass and/or leaf blowing regulated. No person, landscape or mowing
service shall blow or cause to blow leaves and/or grass clippings into the
streets, sidewalks, curb lines or ditches of the city of Johnston City.
   (K)   Junk storage prohibited.
      (1)   Definitions.
         ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE. A motor vehicle, whether on public or private
property, with no current valid state registration, a motor vehicle left
unattended on a highway or public property for a period in excess of 72 hours,
a motor vehicle not removed after its involvement in a collision, an unattended
motor vehicle located on a highway or public property which has sustained acts
of vandalism, a motor vehicle, wherever located, from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. This shall not include registered historic vehicles or a motor vehicle
on the premises of a place of business engaged in ordinary service, storage or
repair operations for a reasonable period of time.
         JUNK, TRASH AND REFUSE. Includes any and all waste matter, whether
reusable or not, which is offensive to the public health, safety or to the
aesthetics of the neighborhood, which is not within a closed building, and is
specifically intended to include, but not be limited to, wrecked, disabled and/
or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, machinery and/or motor vehicles of
any kind, any parts thereof, old refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers and/or
other appliances.
      (2)   Storing of junk declared a nuisance. The storing of junk, trash and
refuse on private property within the city which is not within a closed
building, where such storage is not authorized is declared a nuisance.
      (3)   Automobile on private property. The city may apply to the court
having jurisdiction for an order giving it the authority to have any automobile
parked on private property in violation of this chapter removed from such
property.
   (L)   Generally. To commit any offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land or made such by statute of the state.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-1) (Ord. 04-24, passed 1-23-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 NUISANCES DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH GENERALLY.
   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained or operated in the city if such
use, keeping, maintenance of same shall be dangerous or detrimental to health.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief or his or her designated representative
finds that a nuisance exists, he or she shall direct the City Clerk to mail
(certified) to the party responsible for the nuisance and to the party on whose
property the nuisance exists a written notice ordering that the nuisance be
abated within a reasonable time.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A statement of what condition or state of affairs must be achieved
in order for the nuisance to be deemed abated;
      (4)   A statement suggesting how such abatement might be accomplished;
      (5)   The date by which abatement must be completed;
      (6)   The date by which a request for a hearing must be filed and a
statement of the procedure for so filing;
      (7)   A statement that the responsible party has a right to appeal the
abatement order to the City Council; and
      (8)   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date prescribed and/or if no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, this municipality will abate the nuisance and assess the costs
against the property and/or impose a fine.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 HEARING.
   Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a hearing with the Police
Chief or his or her designated representative ordering the abatement. A request
for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the City Clerk within
the time stated in the notice; otherwise, it will be presumed that a nuisance
exists, and that such nuisance must be abated as ordered. The hearing shall not
be a formal trial-type proceeding, but appropriate procedural safeguards shall
be observed to ensure fairness. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Police
Chief or his or her designated representative shall render his or her decision
and the reasons therefor in writing. If he or she finds that a nuisance exists,
he or she shall order it abated within an additional time which must be
reasonable under the circumstances.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any party aggrieved by the decision of the Police Chief may appeal to
the City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk
within five days of such decision a written statement indicating the basis for
the appeal.
   (B)   The appeal shall be heard by the City Council at the next regular or
special meeting after such filing. Their findings shall be conclusive and if a
nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a time reasonable
under the circumstances.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the person ordered to abate a nuisance fails to do so, or if the nuisance
poses an emergency, this municipality may perform the required action to abate.
Any municipal official who is authorized to abate any nuisance as defined in
this chapter shall have authority to engage the necessary assistance and to
incur the necessary expenses therefor. The official who abates a nuisance shall
keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred. The itemized expense shall
be filed with the City Clerk who shall pay such expenses on behalf of this
city.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2
§ 94.07 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   (A)   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to
comply with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the
time specified, such person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The corporate authorities shall not be required to issue another
notice where the condition or violation is at first abated, but later resumed
and/or repeated.
   (C)   Remedies.
      (1)   The city may provide for the removal of junk or debris from any
parcel of private property within the municipality if the owner-of that parcel,
after reasonable notice, refuses or neglects to remove the junk or debris. The
city may collect, from the owner of the parcel, the reasonable removal cost.
      (2)   The municipality's removal cost under this chapter is a lien upon
the underlying parcel in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.
      (3)   In the case of an abandoned residential property as defined in 65
ILCS 5/11-20-15.1, the municipality may elect to obtain a lien for the removal
cost pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1.
(1999 Code, § 25-1-7) (Ord. 04-24, passed 1-23-2024) Penalty, see §  
10.99
WEEDS
§ 94.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. As used in this code shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: burdock, rag weed (giant), rag weed (common), thistle, cocklebur,
jimson, blue vervain, common milk weed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard,
rough pigweed, lambsquarter, wild lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all
varieties), poison hemlock, wild hemp and johnson grass and all other noxious
weeds as defined by the statutes of the state.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 94.21 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the city. Any such plants or weeds exceeding
such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 NOTICE.
   The Police Department or any other person so designated by the Mayor or City
Council may issue a written notice for removal of weeds or grass. Such weeds or
grass shall be cut by the owner or occupant within five days after such notice
has been duly served.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided,
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-4)
§ 94.24 ABATEMENT.
   In the event the person receiving the service of notice provided for herein
above, fails to abate the nuisance within 72 hours, a citation may be issued
and a fine imposed for each day the nuisance continues, or the city may, in its
discretion, abate the nuisance by mowing the lot(s) and impose a fee of $250
per lot for the service.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-5) (Ord. 5-2000, passed 6-13-2000)
§ 94.25 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner.
   (C)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the city shall be
recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-6)
§ 94.26 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release filing fees
shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-7)
§ 94.27 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed-cutting charges shall be sold for
non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city after lien
is in effect for 60 days.
(1999 Code, § 25-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-20-7
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 94.40 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or her
premises or private property. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect
to remove the garbage or debris.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.41 NOTICE TO PERSON.
   The Mayor, Chief of Police or the Mayor’s designated representative may
issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris. Such garbage or debris
shall be removed by the owner or occupant within five days after such notice
has been duly served.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.42 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the same to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or her
household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by mailing
such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided that if
the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then
the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.43 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
city may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of
the abatement and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 94.44 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner.
   (C)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the city shall be
recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-5)
§ 94.45 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 94.46 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city, after lien is in effect for
60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two years after
the date of filing notice of lien.
(1999 Code, § 25-3-7)
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
§ 94.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle which, for a period of at least
seven days or any greater period fixed by law, the engine, wheels or other
parts have been removed; or in which the engine, wheels or other parts have
been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of
being driven under its own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not
include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being
driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations.
(1999 Code, § 25-4-1)
§ 94.61 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property in view
of the general public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 25-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.62 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Police Department shall notify the owner of the motor vehicle, informing
him or her that he or she shall dispose of any inoperable vehicles under his or
her control. If the owner fails to dispose of said inoperable vehicle(s) after
seven days from the issuance of the notice, the Police Department may authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the inoperable vehicle or
parts thereof.
(1999 Code, § 25-4-3)
APPENDIX A: NOTICES
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
NUISANCE VIOLATION NOTICE
TO:   _____________________
      _____________________
      _____________________
   You are hereby notified that ______________________________ has determined
that the property owned by you (and/or occupied by you, as the case may be)
located at ______________________ located within the Corporate Limits of this
Municipality contains an unlawful nuisance(s) as defined by §
94.01 of the Municipal Code.
   You are required to abate and remove any nuisance(s) within five (5) days
from the date of this notice.
   If you refuse or neglect to remove and abate specified nuisance(s), the
corporate authorities of this Municipality may provide for the removal and
abatement thereof. The cost of such removal shall be paid by you.
______________________________
MUNICIPAL CLERK
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
Dated this ___________ day of _________________,_____.
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
NOTICE
UNLAWFUL WEED GROWTH
TO:   _____________________
      _____________________
      _____________________
   You are hereby notified that _____________________ has determined that
property owned by you (and/or occupied by you, as the case may be) at
___________________, located within the City Limits contains unlawful weed
growth as defined by Chapter 94 of the City Code.
   You are required to remove all growth within five (5) days from the date of
this Notice.
   If you refuse or neglect to remove such growth, the authorities of the City
of Johnston City, Illinois may provide for the removal thereof. The cost of
such growth removal shall be paid by you.
_________________________
CITY CLERK
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
   Dated this ________ day of ______________________, _____.
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
NOTICE
UNLAWFUL GARBAGE AND/OR DEBRIS
TO:    _____________________
      _____________________
      _____________________
   You are hereby notified that the ________________________________ has
determined that property owned by you (and/or occupied by you, as the case may
be) located at ______________________, located within the City Limits contains
garbage and/or debris as defined by Chapter 94 of the City Code.
   You are required to remove all such material within five days from the date
of this Notice.
   If you refuse or neglect to remove such garbage and/or debris, the
authorities of the City of Johnston City, Illinois may provide for the removal
thereof. The cost of the garbage and/or debris removal shall be paid by you.
___________________________
CITY CLERK
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
   Dated this _____________ day of ____________________, ______.
(2010 Code, Ch. 25, Forms)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks, Generally
   
95.01   Board created
   
95.02   Composition
   
95.03   Appointment of Board members
   
95.04   Chairperson
   
95.05   Powers of the Park Board
   
95.06   Leasing of premises under control of Park Board
   
95.07   Meetings of Board
   
95.08   Quorum
   
95.09   Organizational meeting
   
95.10   Compensation
   
95.11   Park Fund
   
95.12   Donations
Park Department
   
95.25   Department created
   
95.26   Employees
   
95.27   Duties of caretaker
   
95.28   Duties of custodian
Park Use
   
95.40   City park rules
PARKS, GENERALLY
§ 95.01 BOARD CREATED.
   There is hereby created a City Park Board of the city.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-1)
§ 95.02 COMPOSITION.
   The City Park Board shall be composed of citizens of the city. One person
per ward shall be appointed and the remaining member shall be appointed at
large and shall be five in number, a Chairperson and four members; however, the
Mayor shall be an ex officio member.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-2) (Ord. 18-12, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 95.03 APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The members of the Park Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council. The term of each member shall be for a
period of four years. Terms are to be staggered so that one member is appointed
each year, except that in Mayoral election years, two members shall be
appointed. Each ward of the city shall be represented on the Board at all times
and the Chairperson of the Board shall be selected by the City Park Board
members, from their membership. Any vacancies existing at any time due to
death, resignation or any other cause shall be filled by appointment by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-3) (Ord. 18-12, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 95.04 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Chairperson shall be vested with the following powers and duties, to-
wit.
   (A)   He or she shall preside over all meetings of the Board.
   (B)   He or she shall appoint a Secretary at each annual meeting of the
Board whose duty it shall be to keep a record of minutes of the Board.
   (C)   He or she shall call special meetings of the Board when it is deemed
necessary.
   (D)   He or she shall be entitled to vote on all matters coming before the
meetings of the Board only in case the vote is tied. Vice Chairperson shall be
eligible to vote on all matters coming before the Board.
   (E)   He or she shall approve for payment all monies paid out of the Park
Fund of the city before same are voted upon by the City Council; however, he or
she shall approve only those bills allowed by the Park Board.
   (F)   He or she shall appoint all committees to oversee each park: Arrowhead
Campground, City Park, Park East, Terry Pyle field, Memorial Park, tennis
courts.
   (G)   During the absence or disability of the Chairperson the Vice
Chairperson shall act in absence, and in case that both Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson are absent, the members of the Board shall select one of them to
act as Chairperson.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-4)
§ 95.05 POWERS OF THE PARK BOARD.
   The Park Board shall have the following powers, to-wit.
   (A)   It shall have the full control of the management of the City Park,
Arrowhead Lake Campground and all the city-owned recreational facilities,
memorial premises and improvements thereon within the corporate limits of the
city, and shall control the expenditures of the Park Fund of the city subject
to the provisions of division (C) below.
   (B)   The Park Board shall make all contracts of employment of persons
working for the Park Board, purchase all materials and needed equipment for
proper control and management of the parks and other facilities under its
control.
   (C)   In all cases where the expenditure for any given project of the Park
Board is in excess of $5,000 special authority of the City Council shall be
required.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-5)
§ 95.06 LEASING OF PREMISES UNDER CONTROL OF PARK BOARD.
   Before any contract or lease of all or any part of the property in control
of the Park Board shall be legal, said contract or lease must be approved by
the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-6)
§ 95.07 MEETINGS OF BOARD.
   The regular meetings of the City Park Board shall be held at the City’s
Community Center, also known as the Scout Cabin, on the second Wednesday of
each month at 6:00 p.m.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-7) (Ord. 18-12, passed 9-11-2012; Ord. 02-13, passed 1-8-
2013)
§ 95.08 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be four or more members, the Chairperson being included.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-8) (Ord. 18-12, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 95.09 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The organizational meeting shall be held on the fourth Monday each year.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-9)
§ 95.10 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the Park Board shall receive any compensation directly or
indirectly for his or her services as such member and a member shall be
eligible to be appointed who is an elected or appointed officer of the city.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-10)
§ 95.11 PARK FUND.
   No monies of the Park Fund are to be expended for any other purpose than
regular park expenses, nor may such funds be borrowed for use in other city
funds.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-11)
§ 95.12 DONATIONS.
   The City Park Board may for and on behalf of the city receive donations of
money for use on any park property to be used for improvements or
beautification.
(1999 Code, § 28-1-12) (Ord. 11-08, passed 4-8-2008)
PARK DEPARTMENT
§ 95.25 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Park Department of the city.
   (B)   The Department shall consist of the caretaker, custodian and such
other employees as the corporate authorities may from time to time deem
appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Department shall be under the general supervision of the City Park
Board.
(1999 Code, § 28-2-1)
§ 95.26 EMPLOYEES.
   The custodian, the caretaker and any and all employees shall be appointed by
the City Park Board with the advice and consent of the corporate authorities.
(1999 Code, § 28-2-2)
§ 95.27 DUTIES OF CARETAKER.
   It shall be the duties of the caretaker of the city park to keep the park in
a sanitary condition, keep the grass cut and remove the debris and the like.
The caretaker is clothed with police powers with power to arrest for violations
of city ordinances within and in the vicinity of the park.
(1999 Code, § 28-2-3)
§ 95.28 DUTIES OF CUSTODIAN.
   The custodian shall have general management of the park, including, but not
limited to, the general supervision over the use of the park by people
generally with power to enforce the rules now or hereafter in effect as to the
park.
(1999 Code, § 28-2-4) (Ord. 11-08, passed 4-8-2008)
PARK USE
§ 95.40 CITY PARK RULES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate any of
the following rules within or adjacent to the city park.
   (A)   No liquor shall be sold or consumed within the city park area or
adjacent territory.
   (B)   There shall be no parking on the main road or roads through the park
or in areas within or adjacent to the park when posted as no parking areas.
   (C)   There shall be no swimming, wading in Arrowhead Lake and fishing shall
be permitted between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Boats are permitted
on Arrowhead Lake with trolling motors only.
   (D)   No property belonging to the city located in the park shall be removed
from the park without consent of the City Council.
   (E)   The city also adopts and incorporates by reference the rules attached
to Ordinance No. 09-2024 as Schedule 1 as rules and regulations related to
Arrowhead Lake Campground.
(1999 Code, § 28-3-1) (Ord. 11-08, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 09-2024, passed 5-28-
2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: STREET REGULATIONS
Section
Department Established
   
96.001   Department established
   
96.002   Committee on Streets
General Regulations
   
96.015   Undermining
   
96.016   Open doors
   
96.017   Repairing sidewalks and the like
   
96.018   Stairway; railing
   
96.019   Closing street
   
96.020   Signs across street
   
96.021   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
96.022   Deposits on sidewalks
   
96.023   Obstructing street
   
96.024   Rainwater drains
   
96.025   Building materials on street
   
96.026   Merchandise on public street
   
96.027   Encroachments
   
96.028   Posting bills
   
96.029   Signs on poles
   
96.030   Injury to new pavements
   
96.031   Barbed wire fences
   
96.032   Burning on public streets
   
96.033   Wastewater on streets
Trees and Shrubs
   
96.045   Planting
   
96.046   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
96.047   Removal
   
96.048   Injury
   
96.049   Advertisements or notices
   
96.050   Dangerous trees
   
96.051   Wires
   
96.052   Gas pipes
Excavations
   
96.065   Permit required
   
96.066   Applications
   
96.067   Fees
   
96.068   Bond
   
96.069   Deposit
   
96.070   Manner of excavating
   
96.071   Sidewalks
   
96.072   Restoring surface
   
96.073   Supervision
   
96.074   Tunneling
   
96.075   Protective measures and routing of traffic
   
96.076   Clearance for vital structures
   
96.077   Protection of traffic
   
96.078   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
96.079   Abandonment of substructures
   
96.080   Protection of adjoining property
   
96.081   Placement of excavated material
   
96.082   Cleanup
   
96.083   Protection of watercourses
   
96.084   Breaking through pavement
   
96.085   Depth of structures
   
96.086   Backfilling
   
96.087   Trenches in pipe laying
   
96.088   Prompt completion of work
   
96.089   Urgent work
   
96.090   Emergency action
   
96.091   Noise, dust and debris
   
96.092   Preservation of monuments
   
96.093   Inspections
   
96.094   Location records
   
96.095   Liability of persons to city for damage
Street Improvements
   
96.110   Sidewalks
   
96.111   Curbs and gutters
   
96.112   Storm sewers
Culverts
   
96.125   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
96.126   Permit for culvert
   
96.127   Application for permit
   
96.128   Termination of permit
   
96.129   Type of culvert
   
96.130   Cost of installation
   
96.131   Backfill cost
   
96.132   Replacement cost
Driveways
   
96.145   Permits required
   
96.146   Fee
   
96.147   Grade surface
   
96.148   Specifications
   
96.149   Breaking curb; bond required
   
96.150   Repair
Snow Removal
   
96.165   Definitions
   
96.166   Snow and ice to be removed from sidewalks by private persons
   
96.167   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
96.168   Mayor’s authority
Moving Buildings
   
96.180   Permit required
   
96.181   Application for permit
   
96.182   Investigation
   
96.183   Denial of permit
   
96.184   Terms and conditions of permit
   
96.185   Estimate of cost and deposit
   
96.186   Liability insurance
   
96.187   Owner’s completion bond or savings and loan certificate and share
   
96.188   Clearance of site and safety measures required
   
96.189   Inspection fee and permit fee
   
96.190   Issuance of permit
   
96.191   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
96.192   Control and supervision
   
96.193   Notice required
   
96.194   Default in performance of conditions
   
96.195   Approval of route
   
96.196   Obstructing streets
   
96.197   Lights and barricades
   
96.198   Wires and structural supports
   
96.199   Trees, plants and shrubs
   
96.200   Repairs to public property
   
96.201   Refunding of deposits
House Numbering
   
96.215   House numbering required
   
96.216   Lot numbering
   
96.217   Material for numbers
   
96.218   Street names
   
96.219   Street directions
   
Appendix A: Applications; Permits
DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED
§ 96.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of the municipal government,
which shall be known as the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the Street Committee, the Street Superintendent and
the employees.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall serve as ex officio officer.
(1999 Code, § 33-1-1)
§ 96.002 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall ascertain the needs and conditions thereof and shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council.
(1999 Code, § 33-1-2)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 96.015 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the city or belonging to any private person.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.016 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open, any door, any gate or the
grating of any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any
street, alley or sidewalk in the city for any purpose, except the taking in and
removing goods, and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall warn
passers-by of the danger.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.017 REPAIRING SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever any sidewalk, pavement or cellar door on the same becomes worn out
or out of repair, or is torn up or broken and uneven, it shall be the duty of
the Street Superintendent to immediately report such fact to the Mayor or
Street and Committee, and upon verbal or written order from either of them, to
give notice to the party owning the adjoining property to repair such sidewalk
or cellar door without delay.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-3)
§ 96.018 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.019 CLOSING STREET.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley or
public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley or public place
temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that the
street, alley or public place is closed by order of the Mayor. Whenever such
signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or cross such street,
alley or public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface or remove any such
sign.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.020 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street, alley or sidewalk in the city, unless he or she has written
approval of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 96.021 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any bicycle or vehicle over any sidewalk, except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.022 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk, any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than 30 minutes.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.023 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material on any street which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the city, any debris,
materials or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this code.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit
or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.024 RAINWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural or human-made ditch
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be accompanied by a statement as to
the purpose of such drainage pipe, the premises to be served and the
specification of such pipe to be installed. Such application shall be referred
to the Street Superintendent and no such permit shall be issued unless he or
she shall have found that the city code would be complied with by the
installation of such storm water drain or drainage pipe and that the
installation of such storm water drain or drainage pipe would not interfere
with, overload, obstruct or otherwise adversely affect the existing storm water
drainage system within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the city and it
shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.025 BUILDING MATERIALS ON STREET.
   The Street Superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or sidewalk
of the city, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person responsible
therefore to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after being
notified. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving any
lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such length
of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not extend to
more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to
such improvement and the gutter shall always be left free and unobstructed. At
night, such person shall keep an illuminated warning light on such material.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.026 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale, or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements, unless permission is granted by the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.027 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-13) (Ord. 03B-2002, passed 6-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.028 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk,
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.029 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire
alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk,
street, alley or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.030 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.031 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within 50
feet of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of such
public place.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.032 BURNING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the
city.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.033 WASTEWATER ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect or cause
to be connected any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement,
septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances into any storm sewers constructed as part of this
improvement.
(1999 Code, § 33-2-19) (Ord. 03-02B, passed 6-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see Chapters 51 through 55
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 96.045 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefore.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street Superintendent and
shall be referred by him or her to the City Council. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the City
Council.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.046 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including the space on the right-of-way
between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.047 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the City Council
before permission shall be granted.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.048 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in such public
place.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.049 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.050 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.051 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the City Council.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent, so that no injury
shall be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their
conduct.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.052 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(1999 Code, § 33-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 96.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit as is herein required or without complying
with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance from the
terms of any such permit.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.066 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the
purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work; and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
for which the work is being done, and it shall also contain an agreement that
the applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to
be done.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.067 FEES.
   The fee for such permit(s) shall be as follows; however, the City Council
may waive the fees in this section:
   (A)   Excavation in asphalt or Portland cement concrete pavement or surface:
$0.25 per square foot;
   (B)   Excavation in brick pavement or surface: $0.25 per square foot;
   (C)   Excavation in oil treated street surface: $0.25 per square foot; and
   (D)   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: $0.25 per
square foot.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 96.068 BOND.
   (A)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify
the city for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such
tunnel or excavation.
   (B)   Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do business
in the state as a surety company. The City Council may waive the bond provided
for herein.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-4)
§ 96.069 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   For individual or isolated projects, no such permit shall be issued
unless and until the applicant therefore has deposited with the Clerk a cash
deposit in the sum of $250 if no pavement is involved, and $1,000 if the
excavation is a paved area, to insure the proper restoration of the ground and
laying of the pavement, if any.
   (B)   For other ongoing projects, such as the laying of substantial lengths
of line/cable, a blanket cashiers’ check in the amount of $5,000 in addition to
the $1,000 security deposit must be submitted with the permit application.
   (C)   For projects where city officials estimate that the blanket deposit in
the amount of $5,000 does not adequately protect the city, the city shall
reserve the right to require a separate deposit in excess of $5,000 deposit,
execution of a separate master right-of-way license agreement to insure the
proper restoration of the ground and laying of pavement, and City Council
approval.
   (D)   From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the city of
relaying the surface of the ground or pavement and of making the refill if this
is done by the city or at its expense and the balance shall be returned to the
applicant without interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely
refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
   (E)   The City Council may waive the deposit in this section.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-5) (Ord. 04-23, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 96.070 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the city department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed. No unnecessary damage or injury shall be
done to any tree, shrub or the roots thereof.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.071 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Street
Superintendent and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.072 RESTORING SURFACE.
   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley or other public place in the city shall restore the
surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall
be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be
left in the ground. Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street
shall be repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant in compliance with
the regulations of the city and under the supervision of the Street
Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.073 SUPERVISION.
   The Street Superintendent shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be
inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other place in the city to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this code. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours
before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 96.074 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the city which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement, provided that upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.075 PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public.
   (A)   Barriers, warning signs and lights shall conform to the requirements
of all applicable provisions of this code. Warning lights shall be electrical
markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each
day to sunrise of the next day.
   (B)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace
light sources.
   (C)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as nearly normal as
possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. When traffic
conditions permit, the Street Superintendent may, by written approval, permit
the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time
prescribed by him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is necessary. Such
written approval may require that the permittee give notification to various
public agencies and to the general public. In such cases, such written approval
shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (D)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Street Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-11)
§ 96.076 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Street Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-12)
§ 96.077 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle traffic
at all street intersections where possible and safe crossings for pedestrians
at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made across any
public street, alley or sidewalk adequate crossings shall be maintained for
vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the
excavated material without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at
least one-half of the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk
line.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-13)
§ 96.078 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Street Superintendent and the owner of the facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by
its owner. The facility owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of
moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee
unless other arrangements are made with the person owning the facility. The
permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or otherwise, all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case any of said pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should
be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged
to the permittee. It is the intent of this section that the permittee shall
assume all liability for damage to facilities, and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will
be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the
owning utility. The city shall not be made a party to any action because of
this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.079 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Street Superintendent a statement in writing giving
in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If such abandoned
substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of an
installation of the city or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the city or any other public body.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 96.080 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his or her or its own
expense, preserve and protect from injury, any adjoining property by providing
proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where,
in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private
property for the purpose of taking appropriate protecting measures, the
permittee shall obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such
purpose and if he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Street Superintendent
may authorize him or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose
of making the property safe.
   (B)   At the permittee’s own expense, all buildings, walls, fences or other
property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work shall
be shored up and protected, and the permittee shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from failure to
properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for the
permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be re-seeded or the
sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled as required in this subchapter. All construction and maintenance
work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth
and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed
before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any
trees or shrubs which exist in parking street areas without first obtaining the
consent of the appropriate city department or official having supervision of
such property.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 96.081 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to eliminate
danger to those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Street Superintendent shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then re-haul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Street
Superintendent. Whenever necessary in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-17)
§ 96.082 CLEANUP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work.
All cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished
at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of
the Street Superintendent. From time to time as may be ordered by the Street
Superintendent and in any event, immediately after completion of the work, the
permittee shall, at his or her or its own expense, clean up and remove all
refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work and upon
failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by the
Street Superintendent, said work may be done by the Superintendent and the cost
thereof charged to the permittee and the permittee shall also be liable for the
cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-18)
§ 96.083 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the
full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the
face of such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting
street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained.
   (B)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water,
muck, silt, slickings or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting
from sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage
resulting from its failure to so provide.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-19)
§ 96.084 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Street
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants.
      (1)   When required, the depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch
in depth; however, depths greater than one inch may be required by the Street
Superintendent when circumstances warrant.
      (2)   Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent outside the
limits of the excavation over cave-outs, over breaks and small floating
sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Street Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and overbreaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Street Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.085 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Street
Superintendent, install any substructure except manholes, vaults, valve
casings, culverts and catch basins at a vertical distance less than:
      (1)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If said flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street;
      (2)   Parkway.
         (a)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway; and
         (b)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below
the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
      (3)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain said specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in said substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.086 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the City
Council. Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not be
used in the backfill.
   (B)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation unless otherwise specified. The Street Superintendent may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or
her opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the City
Council. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-22)
§ 96.087 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-23)
§ 96.088 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-24)
§ 96.089 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Street Superintendent shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities be
employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation work
may be completed as soon as possible.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-25)
§ 96.090 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Street Superintendent
for such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-26)
§ 96.091 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., shall not use except in case of emergency as otherwise
provided herein, any tool, appliance or equipment producing noise of sufficient
volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-27)
§ 96.092 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey bench mark within the city shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the City Council to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference points or bench marks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper replacement of the monument by the city.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-28)
§ 96.093 INSPECTIONS.
   The Street Superintendent shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter. The Superintendent shall have
the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations
as may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-29)
§ 96.094 LOCATION RECORDS.
   Every public utility, after the enactment of this subchapter, shall maintain
records showing the location of all of its underground facilities except
relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premises or building to
a facility serving more than one premises or building and except oil or gas-
gathering or field lines. Every public utility shall maintain equipment which
can locate such facilities in the field.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-30)
§ 96.095 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO CITY FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this code and any person or property
in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of such
violation shall be liable to the city in relation thereto, and no prosecution
or other proceeding by the city of such person for any penalty imposed for a
violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the city for such damages.
(1999 Code, § 33-4-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 96.110 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade
of the city and in all cases where no grade is established, any person building
a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the Street
Superintendent and the City Council.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay or construct
any sidewalk along any property in the city or along any of the streets, alleys
or public highways thereon, without first obtaining permission from the Street
Superintendent to do so.
   (C)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay the cost of the concrete and
thereafter, the sidewalk shall be constructed by the city. The cost of
construction shall not include any engineering fees; these shall be paid by the
city.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(1999 Code, § 33-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 96.111 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing. Any person owning property within the city who
desires to have new curbs and gutters constructed along the street adjoining
his or her premises shall file a request with the Street Superintendent, giving
the location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters requested.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction and thereafter, the curb and gutter will be constructed by the
city. The cost of construction shall not include any engineering fees; these
shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Approval by City Council. The approval of the request for construction
of curbs and gutters by the City Council shall be dependent upon the approval
of funds, priority of projects and continuity of construction for the best
benefit of the city as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(1999 Code, § 33-5-2)
§ 96.112 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground waters, roof
leaders or storm waters, rain waters or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Departments
shall supervise all connections made to the public storm sewer system or
excavations for the purposes of installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public storm water
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent or his
or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements; use of storm water sewers. Where a storm water sewer is
accessible in a street, alley or easement to a building or premises abutting
thereon, the surface drains, ground waters, roof leaders or storm waters shall
be discharged into the storm water sewer unless otherwise authorized by the
city. Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any substance
other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters or storm waters be
permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer; and no
sanitary sewer shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(1999 Code, § 33-5-3)
CULVERTS
§ 96.125 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public
street or property.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.126 PERMIT FOR CULVERT.
   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert without
first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.127 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a permit to install or replace any culvert shall file an
application therefor with the City Clerk upon a form to be provided for that
purpose. The application and the permit issued pursuant thereto shall be on the
same form which shall be substantially as outlined in Appendix A of this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-3)
§ 96.128 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   All such permits shall terminate upon the expiration of one year following
the date of issue.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-4)
§ 96.129 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open ditches.
The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be reinforced
concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of 16-
gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of
16-gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class IV), or of such other
material as determined by the Street Department, depending upon the conditions
existing. The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade and
constructed with couplings as determined by the Street Superintendent. The
person desiring the culvert shall purchase a culvert as provided herein and
shall have it delivered on the site. The city shall install the culvert.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-5)
§ 96.130 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Street Superintendent determines necessary depending on the conditions
existing.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-6)
§ 96.131 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and place such backfill material as the Street Superintendent
determines necessary to complete the project.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-7)
§ 96.132 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the same.
(1999 Code, § 33-6-8)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 96.145 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across
any sidewalk in the city without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee required.
   (C)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served
shall be issued except upon the order of the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.146 FEE.
   The fee for all such construction shall be $1.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-2)
§ 96.147 GRADE SURFACE.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous to
pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk or be other than level.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.148 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Street Superintendent.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-4)
§ 96.149 BREAKING CURB; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a permit can be issued to break a curb in the city for the
installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a bond or cash in the amount
of $100 is required to be posted with the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-5)
§ 96.150 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(1999 Code, § 33-7-6)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 96.165 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day not a Sunday or a national holiday.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Includes all those areas zoned for business, commercial
and industrial purposes in the Zoning Code and accompanying map as amended or
other applicable regulations.
   BUSINESS HOURS. The hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any business
day.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-1)
§ 96.166 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED FROM SIDEWALKS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Every person in charge or control of any building or lot of land
within the city fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall remove and clear away, or cause to
be removed and cleared away, snow and ice from a path from so much of a
sidewalk as is in front or abuts on said building or lot of land. Snow and ice
shall be so removed from sidewalks in all business districts within the city by
24 hours after cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain. The path
required to be cleared in the business district shall be six feet in width, or
the whole width of the sidewalk, whichever is smaller.
   (B)   However, in the event snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so hard
that it cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the
person charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned in division
(A) above, cause enough sand, cinders or other abrasive to be put on the
sidewalk to, make travel thereon reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon
thereafter as weather permits, cause a path on said sidewalk of at least six
feet in width to be thoroughly cleaned.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-2)
§ 96.167 DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and ice on or
against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk, roadway or loading or unloading
areas of a public transportation system, except that snow and ice may be
windrowed on curbs incident to the cleaning of sidewalks in business districts.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.168 MAYOR’S AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized on behalf of the city to cause sidewalks to
be cleared upon the request of the person or entity charged with snow and ice
removal. Any person or entity whose sidewalk is cleared pursuant to this
section shall reimburse the city for the costs of such clearing.
(1999 Code, § 33-8-4)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 96.180 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved, any
building in, into, through or from the city without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the City Clerk. Such permit shall be known as a “House Moving
Permit”.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.181 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring such a permit shall file with the City Clerk an
application therefor in writing on a form to be furnished by the Street
Superintendent for that purpose.
   (B)   Such application shall specify the following:
      (1)   The character and size of the building to be moved;
      (2)   The reason for such moving;
      (3)   The use, purpose and occupancy for which said building or structure
is to be used;
      (4)   The location from which and to which said building is to be moved;
      (5)   A plot plan showing the proposed location of the building upon the
property to which said building is to be moved, provided said location is in
the city;
      (6)   The streets on, over or through which it is desired to move said
building; and
      (7)   Whether the building conforms to the Zoning Code or other
applicable regulations in the location to which it is to be moved.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-2)
§ 96.182 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the filing of the application, the Street Superintendent shall cause
the Zoning Administrator, or other authorized representative of the city, to
investigate the building and report to him or her the results of such
investigation, together with recommended action thereon.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-3)
§ 96.183 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to move any building or structure which, in
the opinion of the Street Superintendent:
      (1)   Is so constructed or in such condition as to be dangerous;
      (2)   Is infested with pests or unsanitary;
      (3)   If it is a dwelling or habitation, is unfit for human habitation;
      (4)   Is so dilapidated, defective, unsightly or in such a condition of
deterioration or disrepair that its relocation at the proposed site would cause
appreciable harm to or be materially detrimental to the property or
improvements in the district within a radius of 1,000 feet from the proposed
site;
      (5)   If the proposed use is prohibited by the zoning laws of the city;
      (6)   If the structure is of a type prohibited at the proposed location
by any ordinance of the city; or
      (7)   If the moving of the building or structure causes unreasonable
damage to the trees, plants and/or shrubs on and along the public streets.
   (B)   Provided, however, that if the condition of the building or structure,
in the judgment of the Street Superintendent, admits of practicable and
effective repair, the permit may be issued upon the terms and conditions as set
forth herein.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-4)
§ 96.184 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   When a house moving permit is granted, such terms and conditions as may be
deemed reasonable and proper may be imposed, including, but not limited to, the
public streets or other public property in the city on, over or through which
the building or structure shall be moved, and the requirements of changes,
alterations, additions or repairs to be made to or upon the building or
structure, to the end that the relocation thereof will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to public safety or to public welfare or to the
property and improvements, or either, in the district to which it is to be
moved. Such terms and conditions shall be written upon the permit or appended
in writing thereto.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-5)
§ 96.185 ESTIMATE OF COST AND DEPOSIT.
   The applicant shall also deposit with the City Clerk a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost to the city as estimated by the Street
Superintendent of trimming, moving, removing or replanting of trees or shrubs,
and of moving, removing and displacing any pole or other structure, supporting
any wires, cables or other equipment belonging to the city or the cutting,
displacing or changing the location of any wire, cable or other equipment upon
said poles or structures belonging to the city.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-6)
§ 96.186 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every person moving a building in the city shall file with the City
Clerk a liability insurance policy issued by the solvent corporation holding a
certificate of authority to do insurance business in the state, which policy
shall conform in all respects to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   In lieu of filing the insurance policy herein referred to, a
certificate of insurance issued by an insurance corporation may be filed. The
certificate must show that a policy meeting the requirements of this section
has been issued, and shall set forth the expiration date of said policy.
   (C)   The liability policy required under this section shall insure the
person moving a building against loss from the liability imposed by law for
injury to, or death of any person, or damage to any property growing out of the
moving of such building to the amount or limit of $50,000, exclusive of
interest and costs, on account of injury to or death of any one person, of
$100,000 exclusive of interest and costs, on account of moving any one building
resulting in injury to or death of more than one person, and of $25,000 for
damage to property of others, resulting from moving any one building.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-7)
§ 96.187 OWNER’S COMPLETION BOND OR SAVINGS AND LOAN CERTIFICATE AND SHARE.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit to move a building, the owner or lessee of
the property upon which the building is to be located shall file with the
Zoning Administrator or other authorized representative of the city, a
corporate surety bond, conditioned as follows.
   (A)   All of the work required to be done to complete the relocation,
alteration and reconstruction of the building pursuant to the conditions of the
permit shall be fully performed and completed within a reasonable time to be
specified in the permit by the Zoning Administrator, or other authorized
representative of the city. Such bond shall be in principal amount equal to the
estimated cost of the work proposed to be done, plus 10% thereof, and shall
name the city as obligee, and shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   (B)   In lieu of furnishing such a corporate surety bond, the owner or
lessee may post a cash deposit in the amount of said bond.
   (C)   An extension of time for the completion may be granted in writing by
the Zoning Administrator or other authorized representative of the city when,
in his or her discretion, circumstances shall so justify, but no such extension
shall release any surety or other security.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-8)
§ 96.188 CLEARANCE OF SITE AND SAFETY MEASURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a permit to move a building, the owner or
lessee of the property from which the building is to be moved shall file with
the City Clerk a bond or other form of security in favor of the city,
conditioned as follows.
      (1)   Before any work is started on a building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall notify the appropriate utilities
in order that all gas, water and oil pipe lines that are to be disconnected
from the building may be securely capped and sealed.
      (2)   Immediately after the moving of any building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall securely barricade all basement
excavations and other holes or openings.
      (3)   Within ten days after the moving of any building or structure, the
permittee or his or her authorized agent shall complete the following work:
         (a)   Securely close and seal any sanitary piping located on the
property;
         (b)   Fill with dirt or sand any septic tanks or cesspools located on
the property;
         (c)   Fill any openings, excavations or basements remaining on the
land with dirt or sand to street level or the natural level of adjoining
property, unless otherwise directed by the Street Superintendent;
         (d)   Remove any buried underground tanks formerly used for storage of
flammable liquids; and
         (e)   Remove all refuse, debris and waste materials from the property.
   (B)   The bond required by this section shall be an amount equal to the cost
of the work proposed to be done, as estimated by the Street Superintendent.
   (C)   The bond may be in the form of a corporate surety bond, cash deposit,
savings and loan certificate, or an instrument of credit.
   (D)   An extension of time for completion of the work required by this
section may be granted by the Street Superintendent when, in his or her
discretion, circumstances justify such an extension; but no such extension
shall release any bond or other security furnished pursuant to this section.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-9)
§ 96.189 INSPECTION FEE AND PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   An inspection fee in the sum of $15 shall be paid to the City Clerk
upon filing of each application for a house moving permit.
   (B)   A permit fee in the sum of $10 shall be paid to the City Clerk upon
the issuance of each house moving permit.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-10)
§ 96.190 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Street Superintendent shall approve the issuance of a house moving
permit when all the necessary requirements and conditions of this subchapter
have been complied with. It shall then be the duty of the City Clerk to issue
the permit.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-11)
§ 96.191 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Street Superintendent, at any time, and for sufficient cause, may revoke
or suspend any permit granted under this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-12)
§ 96.192 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   Every building which is moved on, over or through any public street, way or
park in the city shall be under the control of the Street Superintendent and
every such building shall be moved in a careful manner and the work shall be
prosecuted with diligence and to the satisfaction and approval of the Street
Superintendent. This section in no way relieves the person having charge of the
moving of any building of his or her obligation to furnish proper supervision.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-13)
§ 96.193 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Notice must be given to both the Street Department and the Police Department
of the city by the person or his or her representative to whom the permit is
issued not less than 48 hours nor more than 72 hours before the actual work of
moving a building or structure is to commence.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-14)
§ 96.194 DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a default has occurred in the performance of any term or
condition of any permit, written notice thereof shall be given to the permittee
by the Street Superintendent, said notice to state the work to be done, the
estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed to be reasonably
necessary to complete such work. After receipt of such notice, the permittee
must, within the time therein specified, either cause the work to be done, or
pay over to the City Clerk the estimated cost of doing the work, as set forth
in the notice, plus 10% of said estimated cost. Upon receipt of notice from the
City Clerk that the permittee has deposited such money, the Street
Superintendent shall cause the required work to be performed and completed.
   (B)   If the permittee defaults, the city shall have the option in lieu of
completing the work required to demolish the building or structure and to
clear, clean and restore the site or sites.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-15)
§ 96.195 APPROVAL OF ROUTE.
   The streets over which any building or structure is to be moved must be
approved by the Street Superintendent and the Chief of Police.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-16)
§ 96.196 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person owning or having charge of the moving of any building into, on,
over, through or from any public streets, ways or parks in the city shall
permit said building to remain in any one location on any such street, way or
park for a period longer than 24 hours, except by written permission obtained
from the Chief of Police, or to obstruct traffic on any railroad.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.197 LIGHTS AND BARRICADES.
   The person having charge of the moving of any structure shall maintain
proper lights and barricades whenever such structure is on any public street,
way or park during the hours of darkness.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-18)
§ 96.198 WIRES AND STRUCTURAL SUPPORTS.
   (A)   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall
have been granted hereunder makes it necessary to move, remove or displace any
pole or other structure supporting the wires, cables or other equipment of any
public utility or of the city, or to cut, displace or change the location of
any wire, cable or other equipment upon said pole or structure, the person to
whom such permit has been granted, or his or her authorized representative,
shall obtain permission in writing from the owner or owners of such pole,
structure or wires, cables or other equipment thereon, and shall notify such
owner or owners at least 72 hours prior to the time that the moving of such
building will necessitate the removal of such obstructions.
   (B)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall not, at the expiration
of said time of notice or at any time, cut, move or in any way disturb such
public utility or city property; and such work shall be done only by the
authorized workmen of the utility or the city, whichever is the owner.
   (C)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall pay to the public
utility, or to the city, as the case may be, any and all costs or expense for
the removal, rearrangement or replacement of any pole or structural support of
wires, cables or equipment thereon or of any damage to such property.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-19)
§ 96.199 TREES, PLANTS AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall
have been granted hereunder makes it necessary to trim, move, remove or replant
any tree, plant or shrub belonging to or under the control of the city, the
person to whom such permit has been granted or his or her authorized
representative shall notify the Street Superintendent at least 72 hours prior
to the time that the moving of such building will necessitate the removal of
such obstructions.
   (B)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall not, at the expiration
of the time of notice, or at any time, trim, move, remove, replant or otherwise
disturb such trees, plants or shrubs, and such work shall be done only by the
authorized workmen of the city unless otherwise approved and so ordered by the
Street Superintendent.
   (C)   The person to whom the permit is granted shall pay to the city, any
and all costs or expenses for the trimming, moving, removing or replanting of
any trees, plants or shrubs or of any damage thereto.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-20)
§ 96.200 REPAIRS TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   In the event that the moving of any building for which a permit shall have
been granted hereunder causes damage to the public streets or other public
property, in addition to any other remedies the city may have, the Street
Superintendent may cause such damage to be repaired and the cost thereof shall
be deducted from the deposit required herein, or he or she may require the
person to whom such a permit has been granted, or his or her authorized
representative, upon written notification from the Street Superintendent to
make all necessary repairs to such streets or property; provided, however, that
should the person to whom the permit has been granted and to whom the notice
has been given, or his or her authorized representative, fails to make the
necessary repairs within the period of time designated in the written notice,
the Street Superintendent may cause such necessary repairs to be made and the
cost thereof deducted from the deposit required herein.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-21)
§ 96.201 REFUNDING OF DEPOSITS.
   When the moving of any building for which a permit has been granted is
completed, and all damage to public streets or other public property has been
repaired to the satisfaction of the Street Superintendent, and all costs of
repairing damages or performing other work as provided herein have been paid
and the deposit as required by §
96.185, or such portion thereof then remaining unused under the provisions of
this subchapter, shall be refunded upon surrender of the deposit receipt
representing the money so deposited; however, should the cost of repairing
damages and/or performing other work, as in this subchapter provided, exceed
the total amount of money deposited, the person to whom the permit was granted
shall be held liable for the amount of damage and/or other costs which are in
excess of the amount deposited. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, upon
receipt of the request from the Street Superintendent, to collect such part of
the claim which is in excess of the deposit from the person to whom the permit
was granted.
(1999 Code, § 33-9-22)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 96.215 HOUSE NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dwelling or other house, shop, store and other building fronting
any street or within the city shall be numbered by the city, under the
direction of the Council, in accordance with the system of numbering
hereinafter provided, with figures at less than two inches in height, said
numbers to be placed in a conspicuous place above or on the side of the front
door of the building to which the same are attached.
   (B)   All of the even numbers shall be placed on the north and west sides of
the streets and the odd numbers on the south and east sides.
(1999 Code, § 33-10-1) (Ord. 44, passed - -)
§ 96.216 LOT NUMBERING.
   All the lots, fractions and divisions of land along the streets shall be
numbered consecutively from the place of beginning to the end of such street,
each complete lot or subdivision of 60 feet or less having one number, and all
of more than 60 feet having two numbers allotted to each 85 feet of frontage.
(1999 Code, § 33-10-2)
§ 96.217 MATERIAL FOR NUMBERS.
   All numbers shall be of metal, enamel glass or other suitable material and
permanently attached to the building with nails, screws or cement so that they
may not be easily detached and lost.
(1999 Code, § 33-10-9)
§ 96.218 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   All streets existing in an east and west direction through the
corporate limits shall be named “streets”.
   (B)   All streets existing in a north and south direction through the
corporate limits shall be named “avenues”.
   (C)   Broadway Street existing in an east and west direction from the east
city limits to the west city limits shall be named “Broadway Boulevard”.
(1999 Code, § 33-10-4) (Ord. 258, passed - -)
§ 96.219 STREET DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   All streets existing in an east direction from the C&EI Railroad shall
be known as “east” streets.
   (B)   All streets existing in a west direction from the C&EI Railroad shall
be known as “west” streets.
   (C)   The avenues existing in a north and south direction shall not be
designated as “north” and “south”, as street blocks number north from the south
city limits.
(1999 Code, § 33-10-5)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATIONS; PERMITS
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO DIG IN CITY STREET
I, or We __________________________, hereby make application for permission to
dig in a City street at the following location.
Address _____________________________________________ Digging being done for
the purpose of:
____________________________________________________________________________________
I, or We agree to comply with all rules, regulations and deposits of the City
of Johnston City, if application is approved, and further understand that:
1.   The applicant shall do all work, pay all costs and shall complete project
in a reasonable length of time.
2.   In performing this work the applicant shall not interfere with or obstruct
traffic unreasonably on the street or alley.
3.   That the applicant or his or her successor, shall assume all risk and
liability for accidents and damages that may accrue to persons or property on
account of this work.
4.   A deposit of $50.00 shall be made before any excavating work commences.
5.   All trenches in street or alley must be backfilled with Grade 8 Stone and
the surface of the street restored to original or better condition.
6.   Upon completion of Item 5, applicant shall contact the Street
Superintendent for inspection of project.
7.   If Street Superintendent approves project, he or she shall sign
applicant’s permit.
8.   On presentation of signed application to the City Clerk, deposit shall be
refunded. The above provisions are hereby understood and accepted this ______
day of __________________, _____.
______________________________________
(Signature of Applicant)
The Street Superintendent of Johnston City shall sign this permit when the
above project has been completed in compliance with the rules and regulations
of the City of Johnston City, for the purpose of refunding the applicant’s
deposit.
_______________________________________         Date ______________________
(Signature of Street Superintendent)
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
APPLICATION FOR CULVERT PERMIT
   I, ________________________, do hereby request permission and authority to
construct a culvert on the right-of-way of the City in accordance with the
information provided on this application and the accompanying sketch.
(Applicant must prepare a sketch showing location, length and pertinent
details.)
ADDRESS: ___________________________________________
Pipe material will be: ________________________________________
Wall thickness or gauge will be: _______________________________________
Type of joint will be: _______________________________________
DATED: _____________, 20_____ SIGNED: ____________________________________
                                    (APPLICANT)
CULVERT PERMIT
APPLICATION          Approved ( )      Disapproved ( )
If disapproved, state reasons:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
DATED: ________________, 20______      SIGNED: ________________________________
                                          (CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY)
CERTIFICATION
   The undersigned has inspected the construction and installation set forth
above and finds that the same (is) (is not) in accordance with the permit.
DATED: _________________, 20______      SIGNED:________________________________
                                          (CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY)
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
STRUCTURE MOVING PERMIT
NAME _____________________________________________________________
ADDRESS ____________________________________________   PHONE _________________
OWNER OF STRUCTURE ____________________________________________________________
ADDRESS OF STRUCTURE ____________________   ZONE DISTRICT ________________
PROPOSED LOCATION ______________________   ZONE DISTRICT ________________
KIND OF STRUCTURE _________________________________
SIZE OF STRUCTURE ________________________
REASON FOR MOVING STRUCTURE _________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
PROPOSED USE/PURPOSE OF STRUCTURE ____________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
(NOTE: Zoning Restrictions May Apply)
ZONING OCCUPANCY APPLICATION ATTACHED: YES______      NO______
(Including Plot Plan)
PROPOSED ROUTE (STREETS) TO BE TRAVELED _____________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
NAME OF MOVER
____________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS OF MOVER
_________________________________________________________________
CITY - PHONE _____________________________________
SUPERINTENDENT’S ESTIMATED DEPOSIT FOR REMOVAL OF UTILITIES, TREES, ETC.
$_______________________
HAS LIABILITY INSURANCE POLICY BEEN FILED? ________      AMOUNT $ _____________
HAVE FEES BEEN PAID?________      AMOUNT $___________
___________________________________            ______________________________________
ZONING OFFICIAL                        CITY COLLECTOR
(2010 Code, Ch. 33, Applications; Permits)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS CODE
      
111.   LIQUOR
      
112.   VIDEO GAMING
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS CODE
Section
Administration
   
110.001   Applications
   
110.002   Persons subject to license
   
110.003   Term and form of license
   
110.004   Investigations
   
110.005   Fees
   
110.006   Termination of licenses
   
110.007   Building and premises
   
110.008   Change of location
   
110.009   Location
   
110.010   Nuisances prohibited
   
110.011   Working conditions
   
110.012   Inspections
   
110.013   Suspension, revocation of license or permit
   
110.014   Appeal
   
110.015   License to be posted
   
110.016   Non-assignability
   
110.017   Business vehicle sticker
Solicitors
   
110.030   Definitions
   
110.031   Certificate of registration
   
110.032   Application for certificate of registration
   
110.033   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
110.034   Policy on soliciting
   
110.035   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.036   Compliance by solicitors
   
110.037   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
110.038   Time limit on soliciting
   
110.039   Solicitations on public highways
   
110.040   Fees
Peddlers
   
110.055   License required
   
110.056   Definition
   
110.057   Applications
   
110.058   Investigation of applicants
   
110.059   Hours
   
110.060   Fraud
   
110.061   Photographs
   
110.062   Unwanted peddling
   
110.063   Peddlers as nuisance
   
110.064   Duty of police to abate
   
110.065   Exclusionary provision
   
110.066   Fees
Coin-Operated Machines
   
110.080   Definitions
   
110.081   License required
   
110.082   Application
   
110.083   Prohibited licenses
   
110.084   Fee
   
110.085   Arcade license
   
110.086   Placement; gambling prohibited
   
110.087   Display of license
   
110.088   Right of entry
   
110.089   Increasing number of devices
   
110.090   Hours of operation
Raffles
   
110.105   Definitions
   
110.106   Licensing
   
110.107   Application for license
   
110.108   Conduct of raffles
   
110.109   Raffle; manager; bond
   
110.110   Records
   
110.111   Ineligibility
   
110.112   Filing fee
Amusement License
   
110.125   License required
   
110.126   License information
   
110.127   Fee
   
110.128   Right of entry
   
110.129   Hours of operation
   
110.130   License requirements
Taxicab License
   
110.145   Operating without license prohibited
   
110.146   Definitions
   
110.147   Application
   
110.148   License fees
   
110.149   Certificate
   
110.150   Fare
   
110.151   Receipt
Adult Uses
   
110.165   Definitions
   
110.166   Prohibitions
   
110.167   License required
   
110.168   Qualifications for license
   
110.169   Investigation of application
   
110.170   Hours of operation
   
110.171   Revocation of license
   
110.172   Signage
   
110.173   Prohibited persons
   
110.174   Accessibility
 
   
110.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Forms
ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.001 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk in the absence of provision to
the contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   The time covered; and
      (5)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number of the certificates of
registration required under 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq., (the Retailer’s Occupation
Tax Act), 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq. (the Service Occupation Tax Act), and/or 35
ILCS 105/1 et seq. (the Use Tax Act), if applicable. Each application shall
contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the municipal officials in the issuing of the license or permit applied for.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 110.002 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license or permit is required in this code or in any municipal
ordinance for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement if by
himself or herself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he or
she or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or
occupation, or if he or she or it solicits patronage therefor actively or
passively; or if he or she or it performs or attempts to perform any part of
such business, activity or occupation in this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 110.003 TERM AND FORM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for longer than a one-year term, and all
licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on the last day
of the next April following its issue.
   (B)   Every license shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk
under the corporate seal, and no license shall be valid until signed and
countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any person be deemed to be licensed until
the same shall have been issued to him or her in due form. See Appendix A for
application.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 110.004 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Clerk, within 48 hours shall refer the
application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such investigation
or inspection.
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding such permits and licenses as relate to the care and handling of food,
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection of
health. If a Zoning Code is in effect, the Zoning Administrator shall make or
cause to be made any inspections which relate to compliance with the Zoning
Code and other related regulations. All other investigations, except where
otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other
officer designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Clerk shall
forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified
necessary and appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor.
Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the application that
his or her application is disapproved, and that no license or permit will be
issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the
applicant that his or her application is approved and the license or permit may
be issued.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 110.005 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until
after the expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be
prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business or activity has been or will be conducted.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become
a part of the Corporate Fund.
   (D)   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or
permit fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee or
permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of the
license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed
establishment, business or activity.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 110.006 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April
30 of the following year, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify all licensees of this municipality of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual), three weeks
prior to the date of such expiration; provided, however, that a failure to make
such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a license.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 110.007 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of this municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall
be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of the Zoning Code and/or other applicable regulations of
this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 110.008 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act may be changed, provided that ten days notice thereof is given to
the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided further,
however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of this municipality
shall be complied with. See
Chapter 155, Zoning Code.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-8) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.009 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in this
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in this municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this code, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced
by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall
be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel; shall be operated
and managed by the same person or owner; and shall be an establishment with the
same classification.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 110.010 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. No business or establishment, whether licensed or not,
shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no
building, vehicle or structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be
used, kept, maintained or operated in connection with any business or
establishment so as to occasion any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life
detrimental to health.
   (B)   Unsafe or unhealthful business.
      (1)   No building or structure utilized, constructed or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe
or dangerous condition.
      (2)   No substance, matter or thing of any kind whatsoever, which would
be dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in work or labor performed in this
municipality.
   (C)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this
code shall be a receptacle of not less than 20, nor more than 32-gallons’
capacity, constructed of impervious material and sturdy construction with a
tight-fitting cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate
handling.
      (2)   Duty to provide refuse containers. The occupant of every building,
structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation shall provide and maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient
number of refuse containers for the temporary storage of all refuse
accumulating between collections. All refuse which is placed for collection
service outside any building or structure must be kept in standard refuse
containers.
      (3)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
      (4)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, café or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons of refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.011 WORKING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Health requirements. No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of
any store, factory, workshop or other place where persons are employed shall
cause or permit such place or any room or part thereof to be overcrowded or
inadequate or faulty in respect to light, ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
   (B)   Sanitation. All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean
condition, free from effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable or other
nuisance(s); also as far as practicable, such premises shall be free from all
gases, vapors, dust or other impurities generated by manufacturing processes or
otherwise which are injurious to health. Sufficient washroom facilities for
male and female employees shall be provided and such facilities shall be
properly ventilated.
   (C)   Heat required.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop to maintain a
temperature within such factory or workshop of not less than 62°F without such
undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions therein; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to
any factory or workshop where the business conducted therein is of such a
nature that a higher or lower temperature than sixty-two degrees 62°F is
necessary or expedient for the work or manufacturing processes of such
business.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of
employment to maintain a temperature therein of not less than 62°F, without
such undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions therein between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from October 1
of each year until June 1 of the succeeding year (Sundays and legal holidays
excepted).
   (D)   Inspection. The Chief of Police or the Building Inspector, if any,
shall visit or cause to be visited all places of employment in this
municipality as often as they shall deem it necessary to assure compliance with
the provisions of this section and to have such arrangements made as may be
deemed necessary for the health and safety of the employees.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.012 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of this municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any
officer or employee of this municipality who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of this municipality requesting the same, sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in this
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take adequate sample(s) of said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of this municipality after having first presented
a warrant authorizing such entry.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-12) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.013 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Nuisance. When the conduct or operation of any business or
establishment, whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and
a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the
Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten days.
   (B)   Hearing. Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
or permit should be revoked.
   (C)   Revocation.
      (1)   Licenses and permits issued in this municipality, unless otherwise
provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in
divisions (D) and (E) below for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
         (b)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of code provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit,
or the premises occupied;
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
         (d)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owed to this municipality; or
         (e)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in §
110.012.
      (2)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable code regulations of this municipality.
   (D)   Hearing notice. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail (return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his
or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (E)   Counsel. At the hearing, the attorney for the municipality shall
present the complaint and shall represent the municipality. The licensee or
permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit
evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render
the decision.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-13) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.014 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor regarding the denial of an
application for a business license as provided in §
110.004 or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit as provided
in §
110.013 shall have the right to appeal to the municipality. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days after notice of a denial of
an application or a revocation of a license or permit, a written statement
under oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The municipality
shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice
of such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the
same manner as provided in §
110.013. The decision of the municipality on such appeal shall be final.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 110.015 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in this
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-15) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.016 NON-ASSIGNABILITY.
   No license or permit granted by the city shall constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be
alienable or transferable voluntarily or involuntarily, nor subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated; nor shall anyone be permitted to do business under
it except the person therein named.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-16)
§ 110.017 BUSINESS VEHICLE STICKER.
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis in whole or in part for a
license fee, the Clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker for
each vehicle covered by the licensee and such tag or sticker shall be posted or
affixed in a conspicuous place on each business vehicle.
(1999 Code, § 7-1-17)
SOLICITORS
§ 110.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation or project.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 110.031 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons
within this municipality is hereby required to make written application for a
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. All resident charitable,
non-profit organizations in this municipality which have been in existence for
six months or longer shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.032 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of this municipality and filed with such
Chief.
   (B)   The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to-wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also, business address if other than residence
address, also, Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status, and if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
with whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of
such employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a certificate under this chapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this chapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this code or the regulations of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States;
      (13)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application in this municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
      (14)   Additional information as the Chief of Police may deem necessary
to process the application.
   (C)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter and of the denial of
applications.
   (E)   Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (F)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the date
of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person whose certificate of
registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 110.033 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this code.
Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the application of the
denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified,
the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this chapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately
upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the Chief of
Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified (return
receipt requested) U.S. mail, addressed to his or her residence address set
forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the
certificate of registration shall become null and void.
   (C)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 110.034 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of this municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the determination
of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 110.035 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions.
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   A weather-proof card, approximately three inches by four inches in
size shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
“ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED”
or
“NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the same, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-6) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.036 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in this
municipality upon which a residence as herein defined is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
110.035, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
   (B)   If the notice states “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
for shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the
notice states, “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the solicitor, whether registered
or not shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-7) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.037 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.035.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.038 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as
herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any weekday or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.039 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General for the state as a charitable organization as provided by 225
ILCS 460/0.01 et seq. (An Act to Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds
for Charitable Purposes, Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an
Appropriation Therefor, approved July 26, 1963, as amended);
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fund-raising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent; and
   (E)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high visibility vest.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-10) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.040 FEES.
    Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $50 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $300 per person per year.
(1999 Code, § 7-2-11) (Ord. 09-18, passed 7-2-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
PEDDLERS
§ 110.055 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.056 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLE. The selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the streets,
highways or public places of this municipality or from house to house, whether
at one place thereon or from place to place, from any wagon, truck, pushcart or
other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall not include
the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items along delivery
routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller to stop and
exhibit his or her items, nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation
of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is
taken.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 110.057 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application to this municipality and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 110.058 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant. If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then
it shall be denied.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 110.059 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this code or not, to engage in peddling as
herein defined prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any weekday or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.060 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in this municipality, or shall barter, sell or peddle
any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.061 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by two inches,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or its agent(s) and/or employee
(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 110.062 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this chapter, nor the issuance of any license hereunder
shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence for the
purpose of peddling if such licensee, his or her agents or employees are
directed to depart from said private residence by the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 110.063 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the municipality by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise without having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
said private residences and business establishments or offices for the purpose
of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking of merchandise is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and is punishable as a violation of this code. No person shall
peddle in a public square.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.064 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of this municipality is hereby required and directed
to suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
110.062.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 110.065 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the municipality or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the municipality or anyone duly licensed.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 110.066 FEES.
    Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Regular peddler license.
      (1)   Daily license: $25 per person per day; and
      (2)   Annual license: $150 per person per year.
   (B)   Community oriented event/special event peddler license.
      (1)   Small table/booth: 10% of sales (to be paid in full the first
business day after the event and not to exceed $150) with a $50 minimum payment
due before event; and
      (2)   Large table/trailer/platform/food truck: 10% of sales (to be paid
in full the next business day after event and not to exceed $300) with a
minimum of $100 due before event.
   (C)   A community-oriented event is a special event organized by the city or
a bona fide not-for-profit organization and designed for and open to all
members of the community where vending will occur. The focus of the event is to
celebrate a holiday, historical event, or to promote the community at large.
Community oriented events may include, but are not limited to: lights
fantastic, concerts, Fourth of July celebrations, and other festivals or
celebrations.
(1999 Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. 08-18, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 05-21, passed 4-13-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
§ 110.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE.
      (1)   Any amusement machine or device operated by means of the insertion
of a coin, token or currency for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the
playing of which a fee is charged.
      (2)   The term includes, but is not limited to, juke boxes, electronic
video games, pin-ball machines or other similar games.
      (3)   The term does not include vending machines in which there are not
incorporated gaming or amusement features.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who sets up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose
of operation by another, any device(s) herein defined, whether such setting up
for operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on
the basis of a division of the income from such device or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or a
club who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor has under his or her or its
control any establishment, place or premises in or on which such device is
placed or kept for use or play or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 110.081 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an operator
of coin-operated amusement devises within the corporate limits of this
municipality without having first obtained the proper license therefor.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.082 APPLICATION.
   Application for license shall be verified by oath or affidavit and contain
the following information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual and, in the case of a co-partnership, of the persons entitled to
share in the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors; and if a majority in interest of the stock of
such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominee(s), the name and
address of such person(s);
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, or if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate;
   (D)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for a
similar license on premises other than those described in the application and
the disposition of such other application;
   (E)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive the license under this section; and
   (F)   The trade name and general description of the device or devices to be
permitted, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and the number of
devices to be licensed.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 110.083 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No license under this section shall be issued to:
   (A)   Any person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   Any person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community;
   (C)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state, or of being the keeper of a house of ill fame or of pandering or other
crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
   (D)   Any person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
   (E)   Any partnership, unless all of the members of the partnership are
qualified to obtain such license;
   (F)   Any corporation if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license for any reason
other than citizenship or residency within this municipality;
   (G)   Any person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent is of legal age and possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee; or
   (H)   Any person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 110.084 FEE.
   The permit fee for each proprietor as herein defined shall be $60 per year
for each device used or played, or exhibited for use or play. All fees shall be
payable at the rate of $15 for each quarter in advance, provided, that where
application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license year a
permit may be issued for the remainder thereof upon payment of a proportionate
part of the fee. In no case shall any portion of said fee be repaid to the
proprietor.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 110.085 ARCADE LICENSE.
   Should a proprietor establish an arcade type business, either as a stand
alone business or in conjunction with an existing, compatible business and the
operation of those coin-operated arcade machine augments the existing business
or generates a substantial revenue stream for that business and he or she has
eight or more of these devices used or played, or exhibited for use or play,
the yearly fee will be $50 for the business to register with the city. The fee
shall be paid in advance to the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. 15-86, passed 8-26-1986; Ord. 04-12, passed 3-13-
2012)
§ 110.086 PLACEMENT; GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All licensed devices shall, at all times, be kept and placed in plain
view of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business
where such devices are kept or used.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or
license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever except as authorized by
the state.
   (C)   Prizes and awards prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
receiving a license pursuant to this subchapter to give or award a cash prize
or equivalent to any person playing any of the tables, devices or machines
enumerated herein above under tournament, league or any other individual or
competitive play.
   (D)   Whenever a device does not operate properly, the proprietor shall
refund any money lost in such device and shall post an “out of order” sign over
the coin slot until such device is repaired.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.087 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall frame and hang his or her license in a conspicuous
place in the licensed premises.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-8)
§ 110.088 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of Police has the power to and shall inspect any place, building
or premises in which any licensed device or devices are operated or set up for
operation at such times and intervals as he or she may deem necessary for the
proper enforcement of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-9)
§ 110.089 INCREASING NUMBER OF DEVICES.
   In case a proprietor, after the expiration of any portion of any license
year, desires to increase the number of devices to be used or played, or
exhibited for use or play in the establishment, he or she shall surrender his
or her license to the City Clerk who shall issue a new license showing the
number of devices licensed thereunder, upon payment of the proper license fee
therefor.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-10)
§ 110.090 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in any licensed arcade business
to exercise, offer, operate or engage in such activities between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, Monday through Thursday, and
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday and 5:00 a.m. the following day, and
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Saturday through 5:00 a.m. the following
Monday. It shall be unlawful for any holder of an arcade license to be open on
Sundays.
(1999 Code, § 7-4-11) (Ord. 16-99, passed 11-23-1999) Penalty, see §
110.999
RAFFLES
§ 110.105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENABLING ACT. The Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/0.01 et
seq.)
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, license fees as provided herein, and other
reasonable operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-2, conducted by an
organization licensed under the terms of this subchapter in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; or
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 110.106 LICENSING.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances within
the city, without first having obtained a license therefore as provided in this
subchapter; provided, however, that such a license hereunder may be issued only
to bona fide religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans
organizations that operate without profit to their members.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms, namely
nonprofit, charitable, educational, religious, fraternal, veterans and labor,
all referring to organizations and/or institutions established for such
purposes, shall have the same meanings as are given to such terms pursuant to §
2(b) of the Enabling Act.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.107 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any organization applying for a raffle license, pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, shall file a written application therefor in the
office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Such application shall be in writing and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The area or areas within the licensing authority in which raffle
chances will be sold or issued;
      (2)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued
shall not exceed one year from the date the license is issued;
      (3)   The time of determination of winning chances;
      (4)   The location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined; and
      (5)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization.
   (C)   Any such application for a raffle license filed, pursuant hereto,
shall be acted upon by the city within 30 days from the date on which it is
filed.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-3)
§ 110.108 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The following limitations shall apply in respect to the conduct of raffles
within the city.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine that winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this subchapter.
   (E)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   (F)   Any license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for all
raffles within the licensing period, and the same may be suspended or revoked
for any violation of the terms of the subchapter or the Enabling Act.
   (G)   Raffle chances may be sold only within the corporate limits of the
city. The aggregate retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $1,500. The maximum retail value of each prize
awarded by licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $1,000. The maximum
price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or sold shall be $10.
The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold shall be
60 days.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-4) (Ord. 06-15, passed 8-11-2015) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.109 RAFFLE; MANAGER; BOND.
   All operation of and the conduct of raffles by a licensed organization
within the city shall be under the supervision of a single raffles manager
designated by the organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the
sum of $1,000 in favor of the organization conditioned upon the honesty of such
manager in the performance of his or her duties. The terms of the bond shall
provide that notice shall be given in writing to the city by filing the same
with the office of the City Clerk not less than 30 days prior to the
cancellation of such bond. The City Council may waive this bond requirement by
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the City Council and
provided further that a waiver provision as to such bond shall be contained in
the license issued to the applicant organization pursuant to this subchapter;
provided, however, and notwithstanding any contrary provision contained in this
section, a license containing such bond waiver provisions shall be granted only
by the unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 110.110 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   (B)   Each organization conducting raffles pursuant to this subchapter shall
have separate records of each raffle conducted pursuant hereto. The person who
accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles on behalf of such organization shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefore issued by the Department of Revenue of the state,
and placed in a separate account.
   (D)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after conclusion of each raffle to its membership and to the city, its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net
proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   (E)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 110.111 INELIGIBILITY.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein above contained, the following
are ineligible for any license under this subchapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A),
(B) or (C) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is an officer, director or employee whether compensated or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined in this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-7)
§ 110.112 FILING FEE.
   Each application for a raffle license filed pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of $10 to be paid at the
time of filing.
(1999 Code, § 7-5-8) (Ord. 11-05, passed 11-22-2005)
AMUSEMENT LICENSE
§ 110.125 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Within the corporate limits of the city, it shall be unlawful for any person
to exercise, offer, operate or engage in any of the following activities for
gain, or to which the public is required to pay a fee for admission, without
first obtaining an amusement license therefor:
   (A)   All bowling or pin alley or alleys;
   (B)   All pool, billiard, pigeonhole or bagatelle table or tables; and
   (C)   All shooting galleries or places for target shooting.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-1) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.126 LICENSE INFORMATION.
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual and in the case of a co-partnership, of the persons entitled to
share in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of
such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominee(s), the name and
address of such person(s);
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth or, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The address of the place where the applicant proposes to operate;
   (D)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for
similar license on premises other than those described in the application, and
the disposition of such application; and
   (E)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony,
and is not disqualified to receive the license under this section.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-2)
§ 110.127 FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a quarterly amusement license shall be $15 for each
location or $60 per year.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid at the beginning of each quarter to the City
Clerk in accordance with the provisions of this code.
      (1)   All license fees shall be payable in advance and in no case shall
any portion of the license fee be refunded to the licensee.
      (2)   The license period shall be the fiscal year of the city and all
applications for renewal shall be made to the City Clerk not more than 30 days,
but not less than seven days prior to the expiration of such license.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-3)
§ 110.128 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Any police officers has the power to and shall inspect any licensed premises
at such times and intervals as he or she may deem necessary, to determine
whether any provision of this code is being violated.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 110.129 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in any of the activities
enumerated above to exercise, offer, operate or engage in such activities
between the hours of 12:00 midnight of each weekday and 5:00 a.m. the following
day, and between the hours of 12:00 midnight of each Saturday to 5:00 p.m. the
following Monday. It shall be lawful for the holder of an amusement license to
be open on Sunday.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-5) (Ord. 16-99, passed 11-23-1999) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.130 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person holding a license under the provisions of this subchapter shall
suffer or permit any minor under the age of 16 years to be in, frequent or
loiter about the premises so occupied by him or her, or to play at any game
played therein, nor shall sell, barter, exchange or give away any intoxicating
liquor, nor shall suffer or permit any betting, gaming, riotous or disorderly
conduct upon the premises occupied by him or her.
(1999 Code, § 7-6-6) (Ord. 27, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.999
TAXICAB LICENSE
§ 110.145 OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as owner,
principal, agent, employee, lessee or licensee, to operate or permit to be
operated any taxicab in the city, unless a license has been issued by the City
Clerk for the operation of said taxicab and a license is in full force and
effect during the whole time said taxicab is in operation.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-1) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.146 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Where referring to the owner or operator of any taxicab, means and
includes any person, firm, association or corporation.
   TAXICAB. Includes all motor vehicles carrying passengers for hire for which
public patronage is solicited; provided, however, that railroad cars, street
railway cars and motor buses operating under the authority and jurisdiction of
the State Commerce Commission or Interstate Commerce Commission shall not be
considered taxicabs within the meaning of this section.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-2)
§ 110.147 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application shall be made in writing to the City Clerk for a license
to operate a taxicab by the owner of each vehicle proposed to be operated as
such taxicab. Said application shall be made upon blank forms to be provided by
the City Clerk and shall contain, among other items, the full name and address
of the owner of said vehicle, the name, model, year of manufacture, state
license number for the current year, the motor and chassis number of said
vehicle, the principal place of business or the owner, and if a corporation,
the names of the officers thereof, and if a partnership, the name and address
of each partner and the trade name, if any, under which said applicant intends
to conduct said business.
   (B)   Said applicant shall also show that he or she has in full force and
effect and on file with the Secretary of State a bond or an insurance policy
before a license shall be issued.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-3)
§ 110.148 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Annual license fees shall be charged by the city to each person, firm
or corporation applying for and securing a license for the operation of a
taxicab, in the sum of $60 for the first taxicab and $20 for the second taxicab
and for each additional taxicab. No license shall be issued until the license
fee for the current municipal year is paid.
   (B)   All license fees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each and every
year, and each license when issued shall expire on the last day of April of
each and every year after issuance.
   (C)   License issued before May 1 shall be prorated on a quarterly basis and
there shall be no refund of license fees.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-4)
§ 110.149 CERTIFICATE.
   Every taxicab shall have displayed on the sun visor therein so that it may
easily be seen by any police officer, a certificate to be issued by the City
Clerk, in which he or she shall certify that all terms and conditions of this
chapter have been complied with and that a license has been issued for the
operation of said taxicab.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-5)
§ 110.150 FARE.
   The maximum fare to be charged by the operator of any taxicab for conveying
a passenger from one point to another within the city limits shall be not more
than $2.50.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-6)
§ 110.151 RECEIPT.
   If requested by the passenger, the driver in charge of the taxicab shall
deliver to the person paying for the hiring of same at the time of such payment
a receipt therefor in legible type or writing containing the name of the owner
and any items for which charge is made and for the total amount paid.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-7)
ADULT USES
§ 110.165 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place, wherein coin-operated or token-operated
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image producing devices are maintained to show
images to persons, and where images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by depicting or describing specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for viewing
on the premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin-operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas (as defined below), or an establishment with a
segment or sections devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an
establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such
materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence
of video preview or coin operated booths, exclusion of minors from such
establishments, or any other factors showing the establishment’s primary
purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
      (1)   Features topless or nude dancers, strippers, “go-go” dancers, male
or female impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows;
      (2)   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified
anatomical areas; or
      (3)   Features entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in or are engaged in
explicit simulation of specified sexual activities (as defined below).
   ADULT NIGHTCLUB. An establishment which presents any form of entertainment
which has an emphasis on specific sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas (as defined below).
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sale or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, novelty
clothing, lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas (as defined below) or an establishment that holds itself out to the
public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its signage, advertising,
displays, actual sales, exclusion of minors from the establishment, or any
other factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
   ADULT THEATER. An enclosed building or area used for presenting films or
other presentations distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas (as defined below) for observation by patrons.
   OBSCENITY. Material of which the dominant theme taken as a whole appeals to
the prurient interests and is without any redeeming social importance if it
goes substantially beyond the customary limits of candor in description or
representation.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely or opaquely covered: human
genitals, or pubic region, buttock and female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; and human genitals in a discernibly turgid state,
even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, fondling
or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or female
breast.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-1)
§ 110.166 PROHIBITIONS.
   Complete nudity in an exhibition or strip dance, or other live performance
amusement is prohibited.
   (A)   The owner or operator of an adult use amusement shall not engage in,
or permit or suffer any person of the premises to:
      (1)   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum region,
anal region, natal cleft or pubic region;
      (2)   Expose any device, costume or covering which the appearance of
stimulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region;
      (3)   Expose any portion of the female breast below the areola thereof;
or
      (4)   Engage in a male or female strip show, lingerie (either male or
female) fashion show, which includes any of the activity prohibited in
divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above.
   (B)   The owner or operator of an adult use amusement shall not engage in,
or permit or suffer any of the following acts to be conducted on the premises:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or other sexual
act;
      (2)   The actual or stimulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, pubic hair, anus or genitals; or
      (3)   The actual or stimulated display of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.167 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or
maintain an adult use amusement of any kind without first obtaining a license
from the city.
   (B)   The license term shall be for a period of one year and shall expire at
the end of one year from the date it was issued. The license holder may apply
for a renewal by application to the city.
   (C)   The annual fee for an adult use amusement license shall be $500.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-3) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.168 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   A license to operate or maintain an adult use amusement premises may be
issued by the city to any citizen, firm or corporation of the state, who meets
the following qualifications:
   (A)   Submits a written application for a license, which application shall
state, and the applicant shall state under oath:
      (1)   The name, address and residence of the applicant, and the length of
time he or she has lived at that residence;
      (2)   The place of birth of the applicant, and if the applicant is a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of naturalization;
      (3)   That the applicant has never been convicted of a felony, or of a
misdemeanor punishable under the laws of the state by a minimum imprisonment of
six months or longer;
      (4)   The location of the place or building where the applicant intends
to operate or maintain the adult use amusement premises;
      (5)   Establishes that he or she is a person of good character;
      (6)   That the place or building where the adult use amusement premises
is to be operated or maintained, reasonably conforms to all laws, and health
and fire regulations applicable thereto, and is properly ventilated and
supplied with separate and sufficient toilet arrangements for each sex, and is
a safe and proper place for an adult use amusement premises; and
      (7)   That the business is not operated in conjunction with the sale,
delivery or consumption of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   A manager of an adult use amusement facility shall meet the same
qualifications as the owner.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-4)
§ 110.169 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   The city may make a thorough investigation to determine the fitness of the
applicant and the truth of the statements made in and accompanying the
application, but its decision on an application to issue or renew a license
shall be rendered within 30 days after the application is received.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-5)
§ 110.170 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation of an adult amusement facility shall be established
by the city after review and consideration of the application and description
of the business.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-6)
§ 110.171 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The city may revoke the license for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The owner or manager permits any person under the age of 21 to be
present in or frequent such adult use facility, unless accompanied by a parent
or legal guardian;
   (B)   When the adult use facility as operated and maintained, unreasonably
and needlessly disturbs the peace of the neighborhood;
   (C)   When disorderly or immoral practices are permitted, or intoxicating
liquor is sold, served or consumed on the premises;
   (D)   When circumstances occur or become known to the city, which, had they
happened or been known at the time the application was made for the license,
would have legally justified the denial of the same;
   (E)   When the adult use amusement facility is opened or remains open
outside the hours established by the city; or
   (F)   When the licensee violates any provision of the city code or
applicable state statute.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-7)
§ 110.172 SIGNAGE.
   Obscene language shall not be used on the outdoor signage advertising an
adult business use.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-8)
§ 110.173 PROHIBITED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any known prostitute, male or female procurer,
vagrant or intoxicated person to be present in any adult use amusement
facility.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-9) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.174 ACCESSIBILITY.
   (A)   No adult use business shall have any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building or structure, or any
adjacent building, which is used as a dwelling, lodging or for the sale,
delivery or consumption of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Temporary walls or doors to separate the building are prohibited.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-10) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not less than $50, and not more than $750.
(1999 Code, § 7-7-8)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
110.165 through
110.174, or who makes a false statement concerning any material fact in
submitting an application for a license or for a renewal of a license shall be
subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed $750 for each day the violation
continues, or revocation of the license.
(1999 Code, § 7-8-11) (Ord. 1-92, passed 2-27-1992; Ord. 01-2003, passed 2-11-
2003)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
APPLICATION NO. ________________      ANNUAL LICENSE FEE DUE MAY 1ST: $______
(PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT)
1.   Applicant’s Name: _____________________________   PHONE ( )____________
2.   Applicant’s Address
________________________________________________________________
   City ______________________________________   State ____________   ZIP
___________
3.   Length of resident at above address _______ years ________ months
4.   Applicant’s Date of Birth ____/_____/________      Social Security No.
_________________
5.   Marital Status______________ Name of Spouse
________________________________
6.   Citizenship of Applicant ___________________________
7.   Business Name ________________________________ PHONE
( )___________________
8.   Business Address
______________________________________________________________
   City ___________________________ State ________________ ZIP ____________
9.   Length of Employment _________ years _________ months
10.   All residences and addresses for the last three (3) years if different
than above: _______________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
11.   Name and Address of employers during the last three (3) years if
different than above: _________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
12.   List the last three (3) municipalities where applicant has carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application:
________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
13.   A description of the subject matter that will be used in the applicant’s
business: ______________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
14.   Has the applicant ever had a license in this municipality?   [ ] Yes   
[ ] No
If so, when ______________________
15. Has a license issued to this applicant ever been revoked?   [ ] Yes   [ ]
No
If “yes”, explain:
_____________________________________________________________________
16. Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this Code, etc.?
[ ] Yes   [ ] No
If “yes”, explain:
____________________________________________________________________
17. Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony?   [ ]
Yes   [ ] No
If “yes”, explain:
_____________________________________________________________________
18. LICENSE DATA:   Term of License   _______________________________________
                  Fee for License   $______________
                  Sales Tax Number ______________________________________
                  License Classification ___________________________________
19. LIST ALL OWNERS IF LICENSE IS FOR LOCAL BUSINESS (PERMANENT):
__________________________________      _____________________________________
__________________________________      _____________________________________
OFFICIAL BUSINESS LICENSE
STATE OF ILLINOIS         )
COUNTY OF WILLIAMSON   ) ss.
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY      )
ILLINOIS SALES TAX NUMBER _______________________
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL BECOME GREETINGS:
   WHEREAS ________________________________________________, having complied
with all the requirements of the laws of the State of Illinois and the
ordinances of the City of Johnston City, Illinois in this behalf made and
required license is, by authority of the City of Johnston City, Illinois given
and granted to the ____________________________ to __________ at
__________________ in the City of Johnston City, County of Williamson, and
State of Illinois, from the _______ date hereof until the __________ day of
________________, ______, said ____________________ to be subject to all laws
of the State of Illinois and all ordinances of the City of Johnston City,
Illinois, not in conflict therewith, which are now or hereafter may be in force
touching the premises.
(L.S.)
   Given under the hand of the Mayor of the City of Johnston City, County of
Williamson, Illinois and the seal thereof, this ____________ day of
__________________________, ______.
____________________________________
MAYOR
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
COUNTERSIGNED:
__________________________________
CITY CLERK
CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY
(SEAL)
APPLICANT/FIELD CHECK
INFORMATION CARD
_______________________________         _____________________________________
Name                        Location            Date   Time
_______________________________         ______________________________________
Residence Address                  D.L.#
_______________________________         ______________________________________
Business Address                  Vehicle Color   Yr.   Body   License Info
_______________________________         ______________________________________
Occupation                     Vehicle Modifications:
_______________________________         ______________________________________
Social Security Number
_______________________________         ______________________________________
Race         Sex      Height
_______________________________         ______________________________________
Action Leading to Check:
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Weight      Eyes      Hair
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Complexion Date of Birth
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Unusual Features:
_______________________________         _______________________________________
_______________________________         _______________________________________
_______________________________         Comments: _____________________________
_______________________________         _______________________________________
_______________________________         _______________________________________
_______________________________         _______________________________________   
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Hat               Coat
                        Associates:
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Cap            Jacket
_______________________________         _______________________________________   
Blouse            Dress
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Shirt            Sweater
_______________________________         _______________________________________
Skirt            Trousers
RAFFLE APPLICATION
JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS
1.   NAME OF ORGANIZATION _______________________________________________
2.   MAILING ADDRESS ____________________   CITY ________________   STATE
______
   PHONE _________________________
3.   CHECK TYPE OF ORGANIZATION: TAX EXEMPT ID NUMBERS:
______ RELIGIOUS    _______ CHARITABLE      ______ LABOR         FED: ________
______ FRATERNAL   _______ EDUCATIONAL   ______ VETERAN      STATE: ______
4.   HOW LONG HAS ORGANIZATION BEEN IN EXISTENCE: _______________
5.   PLACE & DATE OF INCORPORATION: __________________________________________
6.   NUMBER OF MEMBERS IN GOOD STANDING: _________________________________
7.   PRESIDENT/CHAIRPERSON: SECRETARY: TREASURER:
________________________________/____________________/
_______________________________
8.   RAFFLES MANAGER: (CANNOT BE YOUR MEMBER SERVING AS TREASURER AND MUST SIGN
FIDELITY BOND ATTACHED):
NAME: _________________________________         SSN:
_____________________________
ADDRESS: _________________________________      DATE OF BIRTH: _____________
CITY/STATE/ZIP: ______________________            PHONE #: ___________________
9.   NUMBER OF RAFFLES TO BE CONDUCTED WITHIN 1 YEAR FROM ISSUE DATE OF THIS
LICENSE? ______________________
10.   TIME PERIOD DURING WHICH RAFFLE CHANCES WILL BE SOLD OR ISSUED.
BEGINNING                        ENDING
1. _________________________________      _________________________________
2. _________________________________      _________________________________
3. _________________________________      _________________________________
4. _________________________________      _________________________________
5. _________________________________      _________________________________
11.   DATE AND LOCATION AT WHICH WINNING CHANCES WILL BE DETERMINED.
1. _________________________________      _________________________________
2. _________________________________      _________________________________
3. _________________________________      _________________________________
4. _________________________________      _________________________________
5. _________________________________      _________________________________
12.   LIST EACH RAFFLE PRIZE TO BE AWARDED AND ITS RETAIL VALUE.
RAFFLE #1
_______________________________      _________________________________
RAFFLE #2
_______________________________      _________________________________
RAFFLE #3
_______________________________      _________________________________
13.   LICENSE LIMITATIONS.
   A.   Raffle chances may be sold only within the corporate limits of Johnston
City, Illinois.
   B.   The aggregate retail value of each prize awarded by a Licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $1,500.00.
   C.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by Licensee in a single
raffle shall not exceed $1,000.00.
   D.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall be $10.00.
   E.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall be 60 days.
14.   APPLICANT UNDERSTANDS THAT ANY LICENSE ISSUED MAY BE SUSPENDED OR REVOKED
FOR ANY VIOLATION OF THE ENABLING ACT.
SWORN STATEMENT
   “The undersigned attest that the above named organization is organized not-
for-profit under the law of the State of Illinois and has been continuously in
existence for five (5) years, preceding date of this application, and that
during this entire five (5) year period preceding date of application it has
maintained a bona fide membership actively engaged in carrying out its objects.
The undersigned do hereby state under penalties of perjury that all statements
in the foregoing application are true and correct; that all officers, operators
and workers of the games are bona fide members of the sponsoring organization
and are all of good moral character and have not been convicted of a felony;
that if a license is granted hereunder, the undersigned will be responsible for
the conduct of the games in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the
State of Illinois and this jurisdiction governing the conduct of such games.”
_________________________________
NAME OF ORGANIZATION
                                 ____________________________________________
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO            BY: PRESIDING OFFICER
BEFORE ME ON THIS _____________ DAY OF _________________________, 20______
                                 _____________________________________________
                                 BY: SECRETARY OF ORGANIZATION
_____________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
FIDELITY BOND
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, THAT:
________________________________(hereafter called “Principal”) as Principal are
held and firmly bound unto _______________________, (hereinafter called
“Organization”) in the sum of $1,000.00, to be paid to the said Organization,
successors or assigns, firmly by these presents.
   WHEREAS, the above “Principal” has accepted the position of Raffles Manager
with the said “Organization”, and by reason thereof will receive into his hands
monies, goods and other property of said organization.
   NOW, the condition of this obligation is such that if the “Principal” shall
upon request at any time and upon the expiration of his term as Raffles
Manager, render a true account of all monies, goods and other property of said
“
   IT IS A CONDITION OF THIS BOND THAT NOTICE IN WRITING SHALL BE GIVEN TO
JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS CITY CLERK, NO LESS THAN 30 DAYS PRIOR TO ITS
CANCELLATION OTHERWISE IT SHALL REMAIN IN FULL FORCE!
   Executed this ________ day of______________, 20_____, Johnston City,
Illinois.
___________________________________________
By: Raffles Manager as “Principal”
(THE ORIGINAL OF THIS FIDELITY BOND TO BE DELIVERED TO THE CITY CLERK OF
JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS.)
(A COPY OF THIS FIDELITY BOND TO BE RETAINED BY THE “ORGANIZATION”.)
(2010 Code, Ch. 7, Forms) (Ord. 06-15, passed 8-11-2015)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
Licenses
   
111.015   License required
   
111.016   Applications
   
111.017   Examination of applicant
   
111.018   Prohibited licenses
   
111.019   Term; fee submitted in advance
   
111.020   License classification; fees
   
111.021   Nature of license
   
111.022   Limitation of licenses
   
111.023   Dramshop insurance
   
111.024   Display of license
   
111.025   Record of licenses
Regulations
   
111.040   Allowed operating hours for all licenses
   
111.041   Happy hour restrictions
   
111.042   Prohibited locations
   
111.043   Change of location
   
111.044   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
111.045   Transporting and the like in motor vehicles
   
111.046   Open liquor; cup-to-go prohibited
   
111.047   Liquor in vehicles; underage
   
111.048   Restricted residential areas
   
111.049   Election days
   
111.050   Unlawful acts
   
111.051   Unlawful entertainment
   
111.052   Sanitary conditions
   
111.053   Diseased employees
   
111.054   Health permit
   
111.055   Peddling
   
111.056   Gambling
   
111.057   Disorderly house
   
111.058   Prohibited sales, generally
   
111.059   Persons selling liquor
   
111.060   Underage; entry on licensed premises
   
111.061   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
111.062   Identification required
   
111.063   Transfer of identification card
   
111.064   Posting warning
   
111.065   Exclusionary provision
   
111.066   Inspections
   
111.067   Books and records; available upon reasonable notice and maintained in
state records
   
111.068   Restrictions on licensee
   
111.069   Selling false identification
   
111.070   False identification
   
111.071   Underage drinking on streets
   
111.072   Residential drinking
   
111.073   Renting hotel rooms for drinking
Violations; Abatement; Revocation
   
111.085   Owner of premises permitting violation
   
111.086   Acts of agent or employee; liability, knowledge
   
111.087   Revocation of license after conviction
   
111.088   Revocation of license when employee convicted
   
111.089   Misbranding
   
111.090   Abatement of place used in violation
   
111.091   Use of premises for one year after revocation
   
111.092   Revocation of licenses
   
111.093   Complaint by residents
   
111.094   Revocation or suspension of local license; notice and hearing
   
111.095   Appeals from order of Liquor Commissioner
   
111.096   Subsequent violations in a year
   
111.097   Appeal limitations for subsequent violation
   
Appendix A: Application for License
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.01)
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR also
includes alcohol-infused products. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in
accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to
any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by volume.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.05)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.04)
   CATERER RETAILER. A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption,
either on-site or off-site, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as
an incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.34)
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person; and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members, through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided that such CLUB files with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address; and provided further,
that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid,
or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.24)
   CORPORATION. Any corporation, domestic or foreign, qualified to do business
in the state under 805 ILCS 5, the Business Corporation Act of Illinois,
including a limited liability company as defined in 11 I.A.C. 100.10.
(11 I.A.C. 100.10)
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. See SPIRITS.
   EVENT. A single theme.
(11 I.A.C. 100.10).
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith, and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen or dining room
equipment and capacity.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.25)
   MANAGER or AGENT. Any individual employed by any licensed place of business,
provided said individual possess the same qualifications required of the
licensee. Satisfactory evidence of such employment will be furnished the
Commission in the form and manner as such Commission shall from time to time
prescribe.
(11 I.A.C. 100.10)
   MAYOR. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as provided in 235 ILCS 5/4-2,
entitled “Dramshop” and all references to Liquor Commissioner shall refer to
the Mayor unless otherwise provided.
   MEAL. Food that is prepared and served on the licensed premises and excludes
the serving of snacks.
(11 I.A.C. 100.10)
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.06)
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE.  Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PARTNER. Any individual who is a member of a co-partnership. CO-PARTNERSHIP
is an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners of a business
for profit.
(11 I.A.C. 100.10)
   PREMISES/PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place or location where alcoholic beverages
are manufactured, stored, displayed, offered for sale or where drinks
containing alcoholic beverages are mixed, concocted and served for consumption.
Not included are sidewalks, street, parking areas and grounds adjacent to any
such place or location.
(11 I.A.C. 100.10)
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. A prearranged private party, function or event for a
specific social or business occasion, either by invitation or reservation and
not open to the general public, where the guests in attendance are served in a
room or rooms designated and used exclusively for the private party, function
or event.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.36)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or partly enclosed and
partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or merchandise are
offered for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club
room or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be
interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. Any person (other than a corporation) who has resided and
maintained a bona fide residence in the state for at least one year and in the
city, village and county in which the premises covered by the license are
located for at least 90 days prior to making application for such license.
( 235 ILCS 5/1-3.36)
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
   RETAILER.  A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17)
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
(235 ILCS 1-3.21)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE OF RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.18)
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or non-profit organization.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.30)
   SPECIAL EVENTS RETAILER.  An educational, fraternal, political, civic,
religious or non-profit organization which sells or offers for sale beer,
spirits, or wine, or any combination thereof, only for consumption at the
location and on the dates designated by a special event retail license.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1)
   SPIRITS.  Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation,
mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified,
blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.02)
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.22)
   WINE.  Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, vegetables, or honey containing sugar, including mead and
such beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above
defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03)
(1999 Code, § 21-1-1)
LICENSES
§ 111.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any
place for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of this municipality without having a license to do so, issued by the
Mayor of this municipality in the manner hereinafter provided, and a valid
license for such purpose issued by the State Liquor Control Commissioner of the
state.
   (B)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of this municipality is
hereby required for and with respect to each building, location and premises,
within the aforesaid territory of this municipality, at or upon which alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 111.016 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of this municipality
upon the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the Act
of the General Assembly of Illinois, and not otherwise. Such license shall be
in writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Municipal Clerk, with the
seal of his or her office affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the Mayor
an application in triplicate, in writing and under oath, stating the following:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers, directors and the name of the person who will be
managing the establishment for which the license is sought, and if a majority
in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or
her nominee, the address and name of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether applicant has made similar application for a similar other
license on premises other than described in the application and the disposition
of such application;
      (7)   That applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state, or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked and the
reasons therefor; and
      (9)   That he or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of
the United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (C)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
with respect to a corporation, the information and statements required by this
section shall be furnished as to the president of the corporation, the
secretary of the corporation, the directors of the corporation, and with
respect to the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is
sought.
   (D)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least one member of such partnership, firm, association or club, or by the
president and secretary of such corporation.
   (E)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor, one copy
given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the copies
his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make further
comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to the Mayor
and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be considered by
him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license should be issued or
refused.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 235 ILCS 5/7-1
§ 111.017 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Mayor shall have the right to examine or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant for a local license or for renewal thereof, or any licensee
upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been served in the manner
hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to be examined, the books and
records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for
his or her information in the performance of his or her duties, and for such
purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Mayor under
this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her
behalf.
(235 ILCS 5/4-5) (1999 Code, § 21-2-3)
§ 111.018 PROHIBITED LICENSES.
   No retail license shall be issued by the Mayor to the following:
   (A)   A person who is not 21 years of age;
   (B)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law if the Mayor determines, after investigation, that such person has not been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
   (E)   A person whose license has previously been revoked for cause;
   (F)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal for any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
   (G)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason;
   (H)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of such corporation, would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than the
requirement for citizenship and residence;
   (I)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under 805 ILCS 5, the Business
Corporation Act of 1983, to transact business in the state;
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (K)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor license;
   (L)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this code or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (N)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not rent nor have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of a city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the State Liquor Control Commission and the Mayor;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), or as proscribed by
720 ILCS 5/28-3, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a
statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (R)   A person to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period; except those persons who are
eligible to receive a license under 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq., the Raffles and
Poker Runs Act, or 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq., the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games
Act;
   (S)   A co-partnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the
federal government for the current tax period;
   (T)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period; or
   (U)   Any premises for which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-4) (Ord. 10-11, passed 7-31-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 111.019 TERM; FEE SUBMITTED IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
12-month period upon the payment of the license fee as hereinafter set forth
unless sooner revoked or suspended. The license shall be issued in three-month
periods, on or before March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1. No license
shall be issued or rebates given for less than one quarter.
   (B)   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the Mayor as
hereinbefore provided. A licensee may make arrangements to pay the liquor
license fees quarterly. In the event the license is denied, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited in the
Municipal General Fund. The application for a license shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
   (D)   With respect to a corporation operating an establishment for which a
liquor license has been issued, should the manager of said establishment change
after the issuance of said liquor license, the corporation must submit the new
manager’s name and shall be submitted within 30 days. Continuation of the
license will be contingent upon a background check of the new manager as set
out in this chapter, and all fees shall be waived should the license be changed
only as a result of a change of managers. If, for some reason, the manager is
not acceptable, the licensee shall have 30 days to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of said license.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-5)
§ 111.020 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
    Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the
municipality shall pay an annual license fee. Such liquor licenses shall be
divided into the following classes.
   (A)   Class A; Taverns. Class A licenses shall authorize retail sale on the
premises specified for alcoholic liquor for the consumption on the premises, as
well as other retail sales of such liquor. The annual license fee for such
license shall be $1,500. No more than seven licenses shall be issued at any one
time.
   (B)   Class B; Liquor Stores. A Class B license shall authorize the licensee
to make retail sales of all alcoholic liquor, in their original package only,
for consumption off the licensed premises; and retail sales of beer, wine, wine
coolers, and pre-mix package drinks sold in bottles or cans for consumption
within a designated video gaming area on the licensed premises. Sale of
alcoholic beverages poured from a bottle or dispensed from a tap by employees
of the licensee will not be permitted.
   (C)   Class C; Clubs. Class C licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor by clubs for consumption on the premises where sold and shall be issued
only to those not-for-profit organizations which qualify under the term “club”
as defined in this chapter. The annual license fee shall be $1,500 per club.
There shall be a limit of two licenses issued hereunder.
   (D)   Class D; License by the Hour; Civic Organizations; Farmer’s Markets.
      (1)   Upon application, the Mayor is authorized to issue a license to any
charitable or civic organization which desires to keep any alcoholic liquors,
or to any farmer’s market proprietor which desires to conduct wine tastings and
sell, at retail, bottled wine at a city authorized farmer’s market.
         (a)   Charitable Organizations; Civic Organizations.
            1.   The fee for such license shall be the sum of $10, subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
            2.   The organization seeking the license shall be organized under
the laws of the state and registered with the State Attorney General’s Office
as a not-for-profit organization or similar organization.
            3.   Such organization shall provide evidence of dramshop insurance
as required by law and this chapter governing the sale or giving away of
alcohol.
         (b)   Farmer’s Markets.
            1.   The fee for such license shall be the sum of $10, subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
            2.   All proprietors wishing to sell, at retail, and conduct
tastings at a farmer’s market shall possess the ability to legally sell alcohol
from the originating place of business, that is, where the proprietor sells in
the usual course of business.
            3.   Tastings and sales shall be limited to an exclusive area that
is well defined and clearly marked and under the control of the permit holder.
            4.   Tasting samples provided to a customer shall not exceed three
servings of not more than two ounces of wine in a 24 hour period.
            5.   All wine sold or used for tastings shall be provided by the
proprietor and removed from the premises at the conclusion of the farmer’s
market.
            6.   All tastings and sales shall be conducted by employees of the
farmer’s market Class D license holder who are trained to sell and serve
alcohol in a manner approved by the Liquor Commissioner.
            7.   Such organization shall provide evidence of dramshop insurance
as required by law and this chapter governing the sale or giving away of
alcohol.
      (2)   Class D licenses shall not be transferable.
   (E)   Class E License; Restaurants. Class E licenses shall authorize the
retail sale of beer, wine, hard liquors and other alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises in conjunction with a restaurant where the
restaurant is the major business. The sale of food must comprise at least 51%
of the restaurant’s gross revenues. The annual fee for such licenses shall be
$1,500. There shall be no more than ten Class E licenses effective at any one
time. The prohibition of dancing in any room where alcoholic liquor is sold
contained in §
111.068 shall not apply to a holder of a Class E license, providing it is
limited to separate banquet facilities. Further, nothing in this section
permits the sale of alcoholic beverages otherwise prohibited by the county or
the state.
   (F)   Class F; Special Event Licenses. Upon application only, the Liquor
Commissioner is authorized to issue a license which will permit a current
holder of a city liquor license to sell alcoholic liquor from a location off of
the licensed premises of the licensee at the times and location designated in
the permit for the special event, or which will permit an applicant that does
not hold a license with the city to sell alcoholic liquor at the times and
location designated in the permit for the special event if that applicant holds
a valid permit from another jurisdiction within Illinois. The special event
liquor license may be issued for no longer than the coordinating event dates.
The fee for a special event license shall be $50. There is a $25 late fee if
the license is applied for less than 14 days before the event. Local approval
and dram shop insurance are required.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-6) (Ord. 05-06, passed 5-23-2006; Ord. 08-07, passed 7-24-
2007; Ord. 03-09, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 24-11, passed 9-27-2011; Ord. 17-16,
passed 12-27-2016; Ord. 09-17, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 16-17, passed 12-12-2017;
Ord. 10-20, passed 8-25-2020)
§ 111.021 NATURE OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issued unless sooner revoked as in this
chapter authorized and provided, and shall not constitute property nor shall it
be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be alienable
or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered
or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee,
provided that executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased
licensee and the trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of
such estate and may exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent or
bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six months
after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. See Attorney
General’s Report No. 703; 01-08-48.
(235 ILCS 5/6-1) (1999 Code, § 21-2-7)
§ 111.022 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Annexing license holders. The restrictions contained in this chapter
shall in no way affect taverns and other business(es) holding retail liquor
licenses, duly licensed by the county, which are located in the territory
annexed to the municipality. Licenses may be issued to them or renewed by the
duly constituted authorities upon annexation; provided that thereafter, all of
the restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall apply.
   (B)   Destroyed or damaged business. No license shall be held in existence
by the mere payment of fees by any person, firm or corporation for a period
longer than 90 days without a tavern or liquor business for the same being in
complete and full operation; however, if a tavern or liquor business has been
destroyed or damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or repaired
within the 90-day period, then, in that event, the Mayor shall extend the
period of time for which a liquor license may be held by the mere payment of
fees without the tavern or liquor business being in full and complete operation
for an additional 90 days.
   (C)   Expiration. If either of the above stated periods of time passes
without the particular tavern or liquor business returning to complete and full
operation, the license for that particular business shall expire and not be
subject to renewal, unless all other requirements of this chapter shall have
been met.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-8)
§ 111.023 DRAMSHOP INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with
the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, certifying that the applicant has the following minimum
coverages:
   (A)   Bodily injury liability: $50,000 each occurrence;
   (B)   Property damage: $50,000 each occurrence;
   (C)   Means of support or loss of society: $50,000 each occurrence; or
   (D)   Combined single limit. In lieu of individual insurance coverage listed
in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above, the applicant may provide a combined
single limit policy in the amount of $300,000.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-9)
§ 111.024 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(235 ILCS 5/6-24) (1999 Code, § 21-2-10)
§ 111.025 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police a copy of the same.
Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written notice
to these same officers within 48 hours.
(1999 Code, § 21-2-11)
REGULATIONS
§ 111.040 ALLOWED OPERATING HOURS FOR ALL LICENSES.
    The allowed operating hours for all licenses defined in this section are
permissive and are not mandatory. Any licensee may operate during the allowed
operating hours but are not required to do so. Actual hours of operation of a
licensee may not be outside the allowed operating hours prescribed by this
section.
   (A)   Allowed operating hours for all licensees having a license
classification as Class A shall be as follows. It shall be unlawful for any
Class A licensee to give or sell or offer for sale or gift or in any way
provide alcoholic liquor, spirits, beer, or wine except during the following
hours:
 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday From 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight
Friday and Saturday                  From 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sunday                               From 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
*With the exception of New Year’s Eve, in which the hours are: from 8:00 a.m.
on New Year’s Eve to 1:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
 
   (B)   Allowed operating hours for all licensees having a license
classification as Class B shall be as follows. It shall be unlawful for any
Class B licensee to give or sell or offer for sale or gift or in any way
provide alcoholic liquor, spirits, beer, or wine except during the following
hours:
 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, From 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight
Friday, and Saturday
Sunday                                From 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
*With the exception of New Year’s Eve, in which the hours are: from 8:00
a.m. on New Year’s Eve to 1:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
 
   (C)   Allowed operating hours for all licensees having a license
classification as Class C shall be as follows. It shall be unlawful for any
Class C licensee to give or sell or offer for sale or gift or in any way
provide alcoholic liquor, spirits, beer, or wine except during the following
hours:
 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, From 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Saturday, and Sunday
*With the exception of New Year’s Eve, in which the hours are: from 8:00
a.m. on New Year’s Eve to 1:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
 
   (D)   Allowed operating hours for all licensees having a license
classification as Class D shall be as follows. It shall be unlawful for any
Class D licensee to give or sell or offer for sale or gift or in any way
provide alcoholic liquor, spirits, beer, or wine except during the following
hours:
 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, From 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday
*With the exception of New Year’s Eve, in which the hours are: from 8:00
a.m. on New Year’s Eve to 1:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
 
   (E)   Allowed operating hours for all licensees having a license
classification as Class E shall be as follows. It shall be unlawful for any
Class E licensee to give or sell or offer for sale or gift or in any way
provide alcoholic liquor, spirits, beer, or wine except during the following
hours:
 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday From 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight
Friday and Saturday                  From 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. midnight
Sunday                               From 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
*With the exception of New Year’s Eve, in which the hours are: from 8:00 a.m.
on New Year’s Eve to 1:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
 
   (F)   All patrons or customers shall leave the premises at the specified
closing time and shall not remain on the premises thereafter.
   (G)   The times referred to above shall refer to Daylight Savings Time, or
when the same is an effect in the city, and upon cessation of Daylight Savings
Time, the times shall refer to Central Standard Time.
   (H)   In case of restaurants, hotels and convenience stores, or similar
businesses, such establishments may be kept open in addition such hours set
forth herein above, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the
public or employees during such hours.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 16-01, passed 11-13-2001; Ord. 11-07, passed 9-25-
2007; Ord. 03-09, passed 4-28-2009; Ord. 02-16, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 25-19,
passed 11-26-2019; Ord. 16-23, passed 10-24-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.041 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged
for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed
premises or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a hotel or multi-use
establishment which holds a valid retailer’s license operates on its premises
more than one establishment at which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at
retail, the hotel or multi-use establishment shall maintain at each such
establishment a separate schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at the
establishment.
   (B)   No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      (1)   Serve two or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except selling or delivering wine by
the bottle or carafe;
      (2)   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      (3)   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized in division (C)
(7) below;
      (4)   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or
the size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      (5)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licenses
premises, any of the practices prohibited under divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above.
   (C)   Nothing in division (B) above shall be construed to prohibit a
licensee from:
      (1)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      (2)   Including drinks or alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      (3)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      (4)   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract
between a hotel or multi-use establishment and another group for the holding of
any function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      (5)   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      (6)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two or more persons at one time; or
      (7)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole, or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of the retailer’s license as provided by §§
111.085 through
111.097.
(235 ILCS 5/6-28) (1999 Code, § 21-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.042 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within 100 feet of any church, school (other than an institution of
higher learning), hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons, or for
veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station; provided,
that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on if such
place of business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes
prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises within 100 feet of any
church or school where such church or school has been established within such
100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church,
the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
(235 ILCS 5/6-11) (1999 Code, § 21-3-3)
§ 111.043 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only on the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
Mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of this state and the code of this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-14
§ 111.044 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors. (235 ILCS 5/6-12) (1999 Code, § 21-3-5)
§ 111.045 TRANSPORTING AND THE LIKE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall, within this municipality, transport, carry, possess or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon, or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.046 OPEN LIQUOR; CUP-TO-GO PROHIBITED.
   The licensee shall not knowingly permit any person to leave his or her
premises with open liquor or in a “cup-to-go”.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-7)
§ 111.047 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; UNDERAGE.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
   (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.048 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within the
municipality in violation of the restrictions of the Zoning Code (
Chapter 155).
(1999 Code, § 21-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.049 ELECTION DAYS.
   All such licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink or in
the original package for consumption either on or off the premises licensed on
the day of any national, state, county or municipal election, including primary
elections during the hours the polls are open within the political area in
which such election is being held and on Sundays, subject to all the remaining
terms, conditions and opening hours and closing hours as set forth in this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-10)
§ 111.050 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the city, to-wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way without special permission granted by the Mayor;
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the Mayor;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof; or
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place, including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.051 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee shall permit or
allow any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/
or employees (TOPLESS being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline and BOTTOMLESS being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward), or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein, or by any employee or guest.
   (B)   Nor shall any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee permit
or allow any employee or guest or any other person whomever to solicit or
encourage the purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any
description, or the giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or
for the benefit of such employee or guest.
   (C)   The following kinds of conduct on premises in this municipality
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts;
      (2)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing or fondling
of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva or anus; and
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.052 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of
the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State requirements, see 410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.
§ 111.053 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious disease, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful
for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work
in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation
or distribution of such liquor.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 410 ILCS 650/10
§ 111.054 HEALTH PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid operating permit from the
County Health Department which regulates health standards.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.055 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in this municipality.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.056 GAMBLING.
   Provided that nothing contained in this section or any other section of this
code shall be construed to prohibit any gambling device or scheme that is
lawful and operated under the statutes of the state, it is unlawful to keep,
place, maintain or operate any other gambling device or instrument in and upon
the premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic liquor is sold or
given away. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or his or her agent and/or
employee, to give or award a cash prize or equivalent to any person playing any
devices or machines defined as a coin-operated amusement device pursuant to §
110.080, except as authorized by state statute.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-17) (Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Gambling defined, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1
§ 111.057 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer or permit any
disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or
disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for
the sale of liquor.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.058 PROHIBITED SALES, GENERALLY.
   (A)   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane or
mentally ill.
   (B)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (1999 Code, § 21-3-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.059 PERSONS SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any Class A licensed
retail premises. In a Class B, C, D or E licensed business, a person may serve
if he or she is 18 years of age or older.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-20) (Ord. 25-11, passed 9-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.060 UNDERAGE; ENTRY ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to enter
upon premises where alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer or wine are sold by the
holder of a Class A license unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   No holder of a Class A license, nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall permit any person
under the age of 21 years not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to
enter the licensed premises.
   (C)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
holder of a Class A license, or his or her agent or employee, may refuse to
permit entry onto the licensed premises of any person under the age of 21 years
who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of the fact that the person
accompanying such person under the age of 21 years is that person’s parent or
legal guardian.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.061 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (1999 Code, § 21-3-22)
§ 111.062 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (1999 Code, § 21-3-23)
§ 111.063 TRANSFER OF IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (A)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card,
use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of 21
years is forbidden.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (1999 Code, § 21-3-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.064 POSTING WARNING.
   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be
displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the Municipal Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
   “YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS
MUNICIPALITY IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.”
(1999 Code, § 21-3-25)
§ 111.065 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by an underage person of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by an underage person under the direct supervision and approval of
the parent or parents of such underage person in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this chapter.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (1999 Code, § 21-3-26)
§ 111.066 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer, or the Liquor Commissioner for the purpose of
making an inspection of such premises or any part thereof.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 111.067 BOOKS AND RECORDS; AVAILABLE UPON REASONABLE NOTICE AND MAINTAINED IN
STATE RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the Mayor having jurisdiction over the licensee. Such books and records need
not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained in the
state.
(235 ILCS 5/6-10) (1999 Code, § 21-3-28)
§ 111.068 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEE.
   In addition to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license is
subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to accept, receive or borrow money or
anything of value directly or indirectly from any manufacturer or distributor
of alcoholic liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/6-5)
   (B)   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this code shall deny or
permit his or her agents or employees to deny any person the full and equal
enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any
premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to
the conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike to all
citizens.
(235 ILCS 5/6-17)
   (C)   No licensee shall sell liquor to any persons on credit, or in payment
for services rendered but this does not apply to clubs and hotels and liquor
purchased for consumption off the premises.
   (D)   No licensee shall fill or refill in whole or in part any original
package of alcohol with the same or other liquor and no liquor shall be sold
except in original packages.
(235 ILCS 5/6-22)
   (E)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of a municipality except in connection with
the operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the act and where dram shop insurance coverage is provided.
(235 ILCS 5/6-15)
   (F)   An established place of business is a prerequisite to the issuance of
a license. Revocation of a license when a licensee ceases to operate the
business before the license expires is within the authority of the Commissioner
on the grounds of non-use. See Goode v. Thomas, 31 Ill. App. 3d 674, 1975.
(1999 Code, § 21-3-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.069 SELLING FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age of 21
years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of the
age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or furnishes to any person
under the age of 21 years evidence of age and identification of any other
person is guilty of violating this code.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (1999 Code, § 21-3-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.070 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any licensee,
his or her agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for
the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure, the serving of any alcoholic beverage, or
who has in his or her possession any false or fraudulent, written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of violating this code.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (1999 Code, § 21-3-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.071 UNDERAGE DRINKING ON STREETS.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage in his
or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place, or in any
place open to the public is guilty of violating this code. This section does
not apply to possession by a person under the age of 21 years making a delivery
of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of his or her parent or in
pursuance of his or her employment.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (1999 Code, § 21-3-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.072 RESIDENTIAL DRINKING.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a violation of this code where he or she
knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of two or
more persons where any one or more of the persons is under 21 years of age, and
the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
is not otherwise permitted by this code; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (1999 Code, § 21-3-33)
§ 111.073 RENTING HOTEL ROOMS FOR DRINKING.
   Any person who rents a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or agent
thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall be used
for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of 21 years
shall be guilty of violating this code.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (1999 Code, § 21-3-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
VIOLATIONS; ABATEMENT; REVOCATION
§ 111.085 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this code, said owner, agent or other person shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this code to the same extent as said licensee
and be subject to the same punishment.
(235 ILCS 5/10-2) (1999 Code, § 21-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.086 ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY, KNOWLEDGE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this code by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or her
personally.
(235 ILCS 5/10-3) (1999 Code, § 21-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.087 REVOCATION OF LICENSE AFTER CONVICTION.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this code, the
license of said licensee may, in the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked and
forfeited and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall thereafter
be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this code for said
licensee to continue to operate under such license.
(235 ILCS 5/10-4) (1999 Code, § 21-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.088 REVOCATION OF LICENSE WHEN EMPLOYEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any officer, director, manager or other employee in a position of
authority of any licensee under this code shall be convicted of any violation
of this code while engaged in the course of his or her employment or while upon
the premises described by the license, the license shall be revoked and the
fees paid thereon forfeited, both as to the holder of the license and as to the
premises, and said bond given by said licensee to secure the faithful
compliance with the terms of this Act shall be forfeited in like manner as if
said licensee had himself or herself been convicted.
(235 ILCS 5/10-5) (1999 Code, § 21-4-4)
§ 111.089 MISBRANDING.
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand known to the
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of the alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any such act to be
done, shall forfeit the alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers to the
state and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this code.
(235 ILCS 5/10-6) (1999 Code, § 21-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.090 ABATEMENT OF PLACE USED IN VIOLATION.
    Every lot, parcel or tract of land, and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this code, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
this state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(235 ILCS 5/10-7) (1999 Code, § 21-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.091 USE OF PREMISES FOR ONE YEAR AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
for the same premises for a period of one year thereafter.
(235 ILCS 5/7-13) (1999 Code, § 21-4-7)
§ 111.092 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this code:
      (1)   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out
for violations of specific articles of this code, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued under
this code for violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquors by any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee;
      (2)   To suspend or revoke any liquor license if the licensee makes any
false statement or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
      (3)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this code or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or by
the State Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      (4)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq., the General Not for Profit Corporation Act, or a
foreign corporation functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of
authority issued under that Act has violated this code by selling or offering
for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license;
      (5)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his or her
jurisdiction that any of the provisions of this Act, or any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act
upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided; and
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall also have the power to
levy fines in accordance with §
111.094.
(1999 Code, § 21-4-8)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
§ 111.093 COMPLAINT BY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Liquor Commissioner, stating that a licensee under this code
has been or is violating the provisions of this code or any amendments hereto,
or of any of the statutes of this state, enacted with reference to the control
of liquor. Such complaint shall be made in writing and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (B)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation
believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which such belief
is based. If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is
reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for hearing,
and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing
and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(235 ILCS 5/7-7) (1999 Code, § 21-4-9)
§ 111.094 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The Liquor Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued by him or
her if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of 235 ILCS 5, the Illinois Liquor Control Act, any valid ordinance
adopted by the municipality, any applicable rule or regulation established by
the Liquor Commissioner or the State Commission which is not inconsistent with
law.
   (A)   Fine as opposed to suspension or revocation. In addition to suspension
and/or revocation, the Liquor Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for
violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for a first violation;
$1,500 for a second violation, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent offense,
within any 12-month period. No more than $15,000 in fines may be imposed
against any licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the municipal
treasury.
   (B)   Revocation and suspension; notice. However, no such license shall be
so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be fined except after a public
hearing by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with a three-day written
notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public and the Liquor
Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an
official record of the proceedings. If the Liquor Commissioner has reason to
believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will
immediately threaten the welfare of the community he or she may, upon the
issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without
notice or hearing order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven
days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period, except
that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business
or businesses on the licensed premises such order shall not be applicable to
such other business or businesses.
   (C)   Hearing. The Liquor Commissioner shall, within five days after such
hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a
written order of revocation or suspension, and either the amount of the fine,
the period of suspension, or the license has been revoked, and shall serve a
copy of such order within the five days upon the license. The findings of the
Commissioner shall be predicated upon competent evidence.
(235 ILCS 5/7-5) (1999 Code, § 21-4-10) (Ord. 15-00, passed 11-28-2000)
§ 111.095 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of a Local
Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than 30 days to
grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may within 20
days after notice of such order or action by appealed by any resident of the
municipality under the jurisdiction of the Liquor Commissioner or any person
interested, to the State Commission.
   (B)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the State Commission from an
order or action of the Liquor Commissioner having the effect of suspending or
revoking a license, denying a renewal application, or refusing to grant a
license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed business
pending the decision of the State Commission and the expiration of the time
allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is
filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until
the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
(235 ILCS 5/7-9) (1999 Code, § 21-4-11)
§ 111.096 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS IN A YEAR.
   In any case, in which a licensee appeals to the State Commission a
suspension or revocation by a Local Liquor Control Commissioner that is the
second or subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee
within the preceding 12-month period, the licensee shall consider the
suspension or revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the Liquor
Commissioner’s action has been issued by the State Commission and shall cease
all activity otherwise authorized by the license. The State Commission shall
expedite, to the greatest extent possible, its consideration of any appeal that
is an appeal of a second or subsequent suspension or revocation within the past
12-month period.
(235 ILCS 5/7-9) (1999 Code, § 21-4-12)
§ 111.097 APPEAL LIMITATIONS FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION.
   Any appeal of the decision and findings of the Liquor Commissioner in §
111.096 shall be limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings
of said Liquor Commissioner. The official record shall be a “certified official
record” of the proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or
certified shorthand reporter. A copy of this record shall be filed by the
Liquor Commissioner within five days after notice of the filing of such appeal
is received by the municipality from State Commission.
(235 ILCS 5/7-9) (1999 Code, § 21-4-13)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE
APPLICATION FOR LICENSE TO SELL ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS
WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS
OF THE CITY OF JOHNSTON CITY, ILLINOIS
   Application is hereby made by ______________________ for a
____________________ license to sell alcoholic liquors at
_______________________________ in the City of Johnston City, Illinois.
1.   Fill in (a) (b) or (c) below as it applies to the applicants).
   (a)   Individual
      Name   _____________________________________________________
      Age   _____________________________________________________
      Address   _____________________________________________________
   (b)   Co-Partnership
      Name and age of each profit sharing partner
_______________________________________
      Address of each profit sharing partner
____________________________________________
   (c)   Corporation, Club or Association
      Date of Incorporation (if any)
_____________________________________________________
      Type of Organization or Association
_______________________________________________
      Names and addresses of Officers and Trustees or Directors:
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      _____________________________________________________________________________
If one person or his nominees owns a majority interest of stock in the
corporation, state such person’s name and address
______________________________________________________
   2.   Individual and Partnership applicants fill in the following.
      (a)   Applicant’s
Citizenship   _____________________________________________________
      (b)   Applicant’s Place of Birth
__________________________________________________
      (c)   If naturalized citizen the time and place of naturalization
___________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
   3.   State character of applicant’s business
_______________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
If a corporation, state objects for which it was formed
________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
   4.   State length of time applicant has been engaged in business of that
character ______________
____________________________________________________________________________________
   5.   State the location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license for which application is made
______________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
   6.   Has this applicant ever made application for a license to sell
alcoholic liquors within the corporate limits of the City of Johnston City,
Illinois on premises other than those described above and if so, what
disposition was made of such application?
_________________________________________
   7.   Has this applicant, whether individual or partners, and in case of a
corporation, club or association, any of its officers, trustees or directors,
ever been convicted of a felony? ______________
if so, state such person’s name and the crime of which he was convicted
_________________________
   8.   Has the State or subdivision thereof or the federal government ever
revoked a liquor license held by the applicant?
_____________________________________________________________________
If so, state the reason therefor
___________________________________________________________
   9.   Applicant states he, she or they will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois, of the United States, or any ordinance of the City of
Johnston City, Illinois in the conduct of the place of business for which
license is hereby applied.
   10.   Applicant states he, she or they has not received or borrowed money or
anything else of value and that he will not receive or borrow money, or
anything else of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course
of business for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, as permitted under the
laws of the State of Illinois pertaining thereto) directly or indirectly from
any manufacturer or distributor, representative or any such manufacturer or
distributor.
   11.   Consent is hereby given to the Local Liquor Commissioner and any
person designated by him and all police officers of said City to enter into,
inspect and examine the premises for which said license is issued, in the event
of issuance, at any time after the issuance of the license.
(If this application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm, association,
club or corporation, then it shall be signed and sworn to by at least two
members of such partnership, or the President and Secretary of such
corporation.)
____________________________________________________
Name (and Title, if any)
____________________________________________________
Name (and Title, if any)
Subscribed and sworn to before me this ________ day of ___________________,
_______.
________________________________________
Notary Public
(Approved) by me this __________ day of ______________________, _______.
________________________________________
Liquor Control Commissioner
MAYOR:
   Your Petitioner, ___________________________________, a citizen of the
United States, born in _________________________ if a naturalized citizen time
and place of his or her naturalization _____
_________________________________ and has never been convicted of a felony,
respectfully petition you to grant him or her permission to sell alcoholic
liquors by retail at _________________________ in the City of Johnston City,
Illinois and in the County of Williamson.
   Your Petitioner is ready and willing and does hereby agree to operate the
aforesaid place of business in accordance with the police regulations and
ordinances of the City of Johnston City in force and any other that may be
enacted during the duration of this license.
   In pursuance of the ordinances now in force and effect, your petitioner
respectfully submits the hereunto attached bond, signed by your petitioner as
principal and by ___________________________
___________ and ________________________________ as sureties, all of the City
of Johnston City and State of Illinois and conditioned upon the faithful
observance of the conditions herein contained.
Dated:
___________________________      __________________________________________
                                 Applicant
BOND
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT, That we ____________________________________
___________________ as principal and __________________________________ and
_____________
___________________ as sureties, both being property holders in the City of
Johnston City, Illinois, County of Williamson, and State of Illinois, are held
and firmly bound unto the City of Johnston City, Illinois in the penal sum of
Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00) lawful money of the United States, for the
payment of which well and truly to be made, we do bind ourselves, and money of
the United States, for the payment of which well and truly to be made, we do
bind ourselves, and each of us, our heirs, executors and administrators and
each of them jointly and severally firmly by these presence. The condition of
this obligation is such, that if the above bounded
__________________________________
__________________ who has filed his or her petition with the City Clerk
wherein the said bounded as petitioned to sell alcoholic liquors and does sell
alcoholic liquors in accordance with the police regulations and ordinances now
in force and effect or which hereafter may be enacted that respect this
obligation shall be void; otherwise to remain in full force and effect.
   WITNESS our hands and seals this ____________ day of _________________,
______.
___________________________(SEAL)
___________________________(SEAL)
___________________________( SEAL)
STATE OF ILLINOIS         )
COUNTY OF WILLIAMSON   )   ss.
   I, ____________________________, a Notary Public in and for the said County
and State do hereby certify that ___________________________________________ as
principal and ___________________ and ______________________________ as
sureties, personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are
subscribed to the foregoing statement appeared before me in person and
acknowledged that they signed and sealed said instrument as their free and
voluntary act, for the uses and purposes set forth.
   Given under my hand and notarial seal this ______________ day of
_________________, _____.
__________________________________________
Notary Public
(SEAL)
(2010 Code, Ch. 21, Application)
CHAPTER 112: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Video gaming allowed
   
112.03   Annual video gaming license required
   
112.04   Application requirements
   
112.05   Term of license
   
112.06   Annual license fee
   
112.07   Conditions of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used in this chapter and not otherwise defined herein,
which are defined in the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.,
shall have the meanings accorded to such words and phrases in said Act. For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises. The term LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT includes any licensed fraternal
establishment and/or licensed veteran's establishment as those terms are
defined in the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., as amended
("Video Game Act").
   VIDEO GAMING. The ownership, placement, maintenance, operation or use of a
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL in a LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT within the city.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine, that upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards, vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, tokens, or is for
amusement purposes only
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 112.02 VIDEO GAMING ALLOWED.
   Video gaming is allowed in certain licensed establishments within the city
only in accordance with this chapter. Subject to all other provisions of this
chapter, video gaming shall only be permitted, and a video gaming license
issued, to a licensed establishment that is a holder of the appropriate liquor
license.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 ANNUAL VIDEO GAMING LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No establishment licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board shall be permitted to
operate any video gaming terminal pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming Act
unless the establishment has first obtained a license and paid an annual
license fee to the city as hereafter provided. No license may issue where the
license applicant owes a debt, fine, fee, or penalty.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information must be included in the application for an annual
video gaming license.
   (A)   The name, address, age, and date of birth of the owner of the video
gaming terminal and of the establishment where the video gaming terminal shall
be located;
   (B)   Prior convictions of the owner of the video gaming terminal and the
owner of the establishment, if any;
   (C)   The place where the video gaming terminal is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place;
   (D)   A description of the video gaming terminal to be covered by the
license;
   (E)   A copy of the applicant's complete license application and all
supporting documents to the Illinois Gaming Board;
   (F)   Evidence that licenses have been issued by the Illinois Gaming Board
to the owner of the video gaming terminal and the owner of the establishment;
   (G)   Attached gaming policy which outlines policies, procedures, and
employee training; and
   (H)   Such other information as the city may determine to be necessary.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be valid for a period not to exceed one year after
issuance, unless sooner terminated, revoked, or suspended as provided by law;
and all licenses shall terminate on April 30 following their issuance.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual business license fee for a video gaming license shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-thousand dollar fee for the initial license and $500 for each
renewal license; plus
      (2)   One-hundred dollars for each video gaming terminal;
   (B)   License fees are payable at the time of application and are not
subject to proration and are not refundable.
   (C)   Video gaming establishments within the geographical boundaries and
jurisdiction of the city and who are already operating as a video gaming
establishment at the time of the enactment of this chapter shall meet all
application requirements of §
112.04 within 90 days of the enactment of this chapter.
   (D)   Video gaming establishments within the geographical boundaries and
jurisdiction of the city who are already operating as a video gaming
establishment at the time of the enactment of this chapter will be held
harmless from the initial $1,000 license fee and will owe its first renewal
fee, as stated in this section, beginning in 2018. Such fees shall be paid on
or before April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   All such video gaming terminals shall at all times be kept, placed,
operated, and monitored in accordance with state laws and applicable
regulations, as well as applicable provisions of this code including, but not
limited to:
   (A)   Prohibiting persons under the age of 21 years and persons who are
visibly intoxicated from entering or remaining in the gaming area, and posting
signage thereof;
   (B)   The operation of video gaming terminals shall only be allowed during
the legal hours of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages
at the licensed establishment. Upon the suspension or revocation of a
licensee's liquor license, the licensee's video gaming license shall
automatically be suspended (or revoked in the event of a liquor license
revocation) without the requirement of any further action by the city; and
   (C)   The designated video gaming area shall be physically monitored at all
times during the legal hours of operation by an employee over the age of 21
years of age.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter. Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to fine in an amount not to exceed $750 and/or license
suspension or revocation pursuant to §§
111.085 through
111.097.
(Ord. 15-17, passed 12-12-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND DECENCY
      
134.   LITTER CODE
      
135.   TRESPASS
      
136.   PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
      
137.   OBSCENITY
      
138.   FIREWORKS
      
139.   OFFENSES INVOLVING DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Criminal Code adopted
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases of 720 ILCS 2-
1 through 2-11, 2-13 through 2-16, 2-19 and 2-20, as approved, adopted and
amended are hereby adopted by the city, as fully as if set out herein.
(65 ILCS 5/1-3-2) (1999 Code, § 27-1-1)
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5, as passed, approved and amended by
the State General Assembly, is hereby adopted by the city. The provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city; provided,
however, the penalties as provided by this code shall apply.
(65 ILCS 5/1-3-2, 5/11-1-1) (1999 Code, § 27-1-2)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
131.01   Disturbing police officer
   
131.02   Impersonation of officer
   
131.03   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
131.04   Unlawful assembly
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
   
131.06   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
131.07   Admission fees; fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
131.08   Sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and alternative
nicotine products to persons under 21
   
131.09   Smokeless tobacco
   
131.10   Unlawful conduct on a public way
   
131.11   Aid in escape
   
131.12   Escapes
   
131.13   False pretenses
   
131.14   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
131.15   Aid to an offense
   
131.16   Posting bills
   
131.17   Intoxication in public
   
131.18   Begging
   
131.19   Concealed weapons
   
131.20   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
   
131.21   Games in street
   
131.22   Storage of explosives
   
131.23   Throwing rocks
   
131.24   Destruction of public property
   
131.25   Fortune telling
   
131.26   Abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes
   
131.27   Halloween
   
131.28   Curfew
   
131.29   Theft of recyclables unlawful
   
131.30   Throwing objects from motor vehicles
§ 131.01 DISTURBING POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall, by violent conduct, disturb any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties; nor shall any person assault, strike or fight
with any police officers in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such
conduct in or upon any house or premises in the city owned or possessed by him
or her or under his or her management and control. Abusive or vulgar language
in the presence of an officer does not evoke into a crime unless the language
provokes a breach of the peace or constitutes fighting words evoking some
violent response.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the city shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the city or shall, without being duly authorized by the city,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of the
city officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any city
officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office, or attempt to
prevent any such officer from arresting any person, either by force or by
giving notice to such person, or attempt to rescue from such officer any person
in his or her custody, or impersonate any of the members of the police force of
this city, or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person, wear
the uniform of or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the Police
Department, or use any of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used by the
Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
§ 131.04 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be illegal for persons to assemble unlawfully in the following
situations:
   (A)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   (B)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of any one supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the good order of society, or the peace of any
private family, or of any congregation within the city by any noise or
amusement, or by vulgar or profane language, or by any disorderly or immoral
conduct.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electrically-
charged fence or barbed wire or other such sharp, pointed fence below eight
feet in height, except in an agricultural or conservation zone district.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES AND ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21.
   No person under 21 years of age shall buy any tobacco product, electronic
cigarette or alternative nicotine product. No person shall sell, buy for,
distribute samples of or furnish any tobacco product, electronic cigarette or
alternative nicotine product, to any person under 21 years of age.
(720 ILCS 675/1) (1999 Code, § 27-2-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 SMOKELESS TOBACCO.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term SMOKELESS
TOBACCO means any finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that is intended
to be placed in the oral cavity.
   (B)   Sales of smokeless tobacco products to persons under 18. No person
shall sell any smokeless tobacco product to any person under the age of 18.
   (C)   Distribution. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed to
any person under the age of 18, without charge or at a nominal cost, any
smokeless tobacco product.
(720 ILCS 680-1 et seq.) (1999 Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.11 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or shall abet or
encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or
other person legally having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere
with any officer or other person so legally having him or her in charge, or
shall, in any manner, aid, abet or encourage the rescue or the attempt to
escape from any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to
supply any such person with any weapon or with any implement or means whereby
an escape might be affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs or other
article(s) without the consent of the officer in charge.
(720 ILCS 5/31-7) (1999 Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.12 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.13 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter public places and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or to
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares and/or merchandise.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.14 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use or allow to be used, any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.15 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
hereby defined.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.16 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door or gate; provided,
however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper city and county
officials of election signs, polling place signs and other signs or placards
necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except they may not be
attached to a tree.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.17 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the city, be found in a state of intoxication or drunk
in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or roving
about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of this city or the private grounds of
any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall disturb the
peace, order and quiet of the city, or the peace and quiet of the citizens
thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent language or
behavior or in any other manner.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.18 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the city without having obtained
permission in writing from the Mayor.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.19 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall, within the city, carry or wear under his or her clothes, or
concealed about his or her person, any pistol or colt, or sling-shot, or cross
knuckles or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal, or any switchblade knife or
razor, Bowie knife, dirk knife or dirk, dagger or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon. This section does not apply to the officers or members of the Police
Department, nor to any sheriff or deputy sheriff or constable of this state,
nor to any United States Marshal.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.20 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow or air gun in
the city or so that the bullet, arrow, missile or projectile therefrom enters
the city without written permission from the Mayor, provided that this section
shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to discharge a
firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor to any citizen to discharge
a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or property.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.21 GAMES IN STREET.
   No person shall, upon any city street, fly any kite or play any game of ball
or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or annoy any
person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.22 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store at or in any place within the city, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the city in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.23 THROWING ROCKS.
   No person in the city shall throw or cast any rock or stone or any other
missile upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley or public place.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.24 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the city shall deface, destroy or in any way, injure any public
property, or any other apparatus of the city.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.25 FORTUNE TELLING.
   No person in the city shall pursue the calling of a fortune teller or
practice fortune telling, soothsaying or the like and receive payment in any
manner therefor.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.26 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which
may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch. The owner, lessee
or manager of such place, who knowingly permits such abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in such condition, shall be
guilty of violating this code.
(430 ILCS 150/1) (1999 Code, § 27-2-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.27 HALLOWEEN.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in Halloween practice, commonly
called Trick-or-Treat, by calling at the homes or dwelling places within the
city, either masked or unmasked, except upon the designated day established by
the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.28 CURFEW.
   (A)   Established. It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of
age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or
highway at the following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent,
legal guardian or other responsible companion at least 18 years of age,
approved by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of this state authorize a person less than 17 years
of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day; or
      (2)   Between 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday, inclusive and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents and guardians. It shall be unlawful for a
parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or
her custody or control to violate division (A) above.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent or guardian, or other person having custody
of such minor;
      (2)   In the performance of a duty directed by such parent, guardian, or
other person, without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9) Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.29 THEFT OF RECYCLABLES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pickup
any recyclable item(s) from any receptacle or collection point where service is
provided by an authorized waste hauler licensed by the municipality or from any
specified recycling center within the city limits unless said person is acting
as an agent for the city or acting as an agent for a waste hauler licensed by
the city.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.30 THROWING OBJECTS FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the police powers in 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1, it shall be
unlawful for any person occupying or driving a motor vehicle, whether moving or
not, to shoot, throw, cast, launch or drop any object, liquid or substance at
any person, animal or structure, wherein the possibility of harm, injury or
damage may occur as a result of these actions.
   (B)   The driver and/or all passengers shall be, upon conviction, fined in
accordance with the provisions of the city code and shall be liable for all
damage, injury or harm caused by the activity.
(1999 Code, § 27-2-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
132.02
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Petty theft
   
132.02   Criminal damage to property
   
132.03   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
132.04   Injury to utility wires and poles
   
132.05   Street signs; destruction prohibited
§ 132.01 PETTY THEFT.
   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under $300
and he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner;
   (C)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner;
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or
her to believe that the property was stolen, and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this code:
   (A)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby, intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1) (1999 Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with
or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private firefighting equipment or any apparatus appertaining to
such equipment, or to intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.1) (1999 Code, § 27-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 INJURY TO UTILITY WIRES AND POLES.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post or wire, or any
electric lightpost, pole or electric conductor, wire or lamp or any other thing
connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas main, pipe
or hydrant or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or connected therewith
or with any of them.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 STREET SIGNS; DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage or destroy any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the city.
(1999 Code, § 27-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND DECENCY
Section
   
133.01   Disorderly conduct; elements of the offense
   
133.02   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
133.03   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.04   Assembling at public places and businesses
   
133.05   Trapping animals
   
133.06   Open burning
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district, a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive device of any nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive device is concealed in such a place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person commits an offense when that person knowingly resists or obstructs
the performance of any authorized act of one known to the person to be a peace
officer within that peace officer’s official capacity.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails, upon command, to reasonably aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(720 ILCS 5/31-8) (1999 Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Drive-in business. A drive-in business within the meaning of this code
shall be deemed to be any business where meals, sandwiches, cold drinks,
beverages, ice cream, food, drink or consumer services are served directly to
or are permitted to be consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles, motorcycles
or other vehicles parked on the premises.
   (B)   Declared public places. For the purpose of preserving public peace,
health and safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in business,
together with means of ingress or egress, are hereby declared to be a public
place.
      (1)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the
motor of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop, any
motor vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made any loud
or unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of
the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed.
      (2)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter:
         (a)   Entering the premises of any drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking such vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving such vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent
of the owner or operator of such business, in which event, such motor vehicle
shall be subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
         (b)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using said
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on said
premises;
         (c)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business,
other than in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
         (d)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in
business, in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or abuse such person
or use any violently abusive language under circumstances reasonably calculated
to provoke a breach of the peace.
   (C)   Posting sign. It shall be the responsibility of the business operator
to post on the premises in a conspicuous location, one or more signs bearing
the following legend in letters at least two inches or more in height and
readable:
      “CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
UNLAWFUL NO UNOCCUPIED MOTOR VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PREMISES WITHOUT THE
CONSENT OF THE OWNER.”
(1999 Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 TRAPPING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to trap game or fur-bearing animals in the
city.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burning of refuse. The outdoor burning of refuse, including, but
not limited to, paint, oil, automobiles, tires, plastics, building materials,
garbage, trash, debris or any other noxious combustible materials, within the
corporate limits of the city is hereby prohibited; however, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the burning of wood, charcoal or other
clean fuel oil, or natural gas, in a fireplace, grill or like facility for the
purpose of cooking or social heating.
   (B)   Burning of natural vegetation. The burning of leaves, grass clippings,
weed clippings, tree trimmings and shrubbery trimmings, and other natural
vegetation is permitted within the corporate limits, providing:
      (1)   All burning is conducted between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m.;
      (2)   All burning is conducted on private property only;
      (3)   The burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways or
railroad tracks;
      (4)   All fire shall be personally attended unless said fire is in a
container with a proper lid; and
      (5)   All fires shall be completely extinguished by sunset.
   (C)   Fire limits. No fires shall be started within 100 feet of any gasoline
station, fertilizer plant or storage area, grain elevator, business
establishment, school or church. Additionally, it shall be unlawful to build or
light any fire in the vicinity of any building or other structure, or any
street, sidewalk or pavement so as to create a fire hazard or endanger the
property.
   (D)   Atmospheric conditions. The Fire Chief, Mayor, City Council or
authorized designee, may prohibit any and all burning within the corporate
limits due to atmospheric or weather condition, or other like situations where
the risk of danger is enhanced.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-6) (Ord. 10-95, passed 8-22-1995) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of §
133.06 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor
more than $300.
(1999 Code, § 27-4-6) (Ord. 10-95, passed 8-22-1995)
CHAPTER 134: LITTER CODE
Section
Administration
   
134.001   Definitions
   
134.002   Enforcement
   
134.003   Powers and duties of the administrative agency
   
134.004   Abatement by city
   
134.005   Recovery by city of expenses of litter removal
Vehicular Waste on Public Streets
   
134.020   Vehicles dropping contents on street
   
134.021   Regulations for use of garbage or refuse disposal vehicles
Maintenance of Property
   
134.035   Litter collection and storage areas
   
134.036   Duty to collect litter
   
134.037   Neglected premises visible to the public
   
134.038   Areas around business premises
   
134.039   Loading or unloading docks
   
134.040   Construction sites; clean condition
   
134.041   Maintaining sidewalks and alleys
   
134.042   Abandoned garbage containers
   
134.043   Neglected refuse containers; contractor
Litter Receptacles
   
134.055   Public places
   
134.056   Parking lots
   
134.057   Private premises
   
134.058   Specifications
   
134.059   Periodic emptying of receptacles
   
134.060   Prevention of scattering
   
134.061   Upsetting or tampering with receptacles
   
134.062   Litter receptacles obstructing traffic
   
134.063   Exterior of litter receptacles
   
134.064   Receptacles to be provided by the city
   
134.065   Containers exempt from the provision of this code
Handbills
   
134.080   Throwing or distributing handbills in public places
   
134.081   Placing handbills in vehicles
   
134.082   Distribution of handbills on vacant private premises
   
134.083   Premises posted against handbill distribution
   
134.084   Manner of handbill distribution on inhabited private premises
   
134.085   Cleanup
   
134.086   Activities exempt from the application of this chapter
ADMINISTRATION
§ 134.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Includes any handbill which:
      (1)   Advertises for sale, or promotional gifts or prizes, any
merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
      (2)   Directs attention to any business or other activity for the purpose
of either directly or indirectly promoting the interests thereof by sales or by
other means;
      (3)   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, exhibition,
theatrical or other performance or event of any kind for which an admission fee
is charged; or
      (4)   While containing reading or pictorial matter other than advertising
matter is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Includes any private or public property upon which
repairs to existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of
existing structures is taking place.
   ELEMENTS. Includes any element, whether created by nature, or created by
humans, which with reasonable foreseeability could carry litter from one place
to another. ELEMENTS shall include, but not be limited to, air current, rain,
water current and animals.
   HANDBILL. Includes any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed matter or
literature which is not delivered by United States mail, except that HANDBILL
shall not include a newspaper.
   LITTER. Includes any un-containerized human-made or human-used waste which,
if deposited within the city otherwise than in a litter receptacle, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare or to impair the
environment of the people of the city. LITTER may include, but is not limited
to, any, garbage, trash, refuse, confetti, debris, grass clippings or other
lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazine, glass, metal, plastic or paper
container or other construction material, motor vehicle part, furniture, oil,
carcass of a dead animal, or nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, or any
object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard.
   LITTER RECEPTACLES. Includes any container which is designed to receive
litter and to prevent the escape of litter deposited therein, which is of such
size or sufficient capacity to hold all litter generated between collection
periods, and which is in compliance with the regulations issued pursuant to §
134.003.
   PARK. Includes a public or private park, reservation, playground, beach,
recreation center or any public or private area devoted to active or passive
recreation, or any other area under the supervision of the Department of Parks
and Recreation.
   PARKING LOTS. Includes any private or public property with provisions for
parking vehicles, to which the public is invited or which the public is
permitted to use or which is visible from any public place or private premises.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Includes any dwelling house, building or other structure
designed to be used, either wholly or in part, for private residential
purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
vestibule, mailbox or other structure belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling
house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Include any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes,
alleys or other public ways, and parks, squares, plazas, grounds and buildings
frequented by the general public, whether publicly or privately owned.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-1)
§ 134.002 ENFORCEMENT.
   Regulations promulgated in this chapter shall be enforced by the Department
of Public Works and the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-2)
§ 134.003 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall adopt, revise and revoke rules and
regulations in furtherance of the purpose of this code.
   (B)   Notice of any adoption, revisions or revocation of rules and
regulations pursuant to this section shall be given to the County Board.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after notice is given by the City Council of
adoption, revision or revocation of rules and regulations by the Board of
Public Works pursuant to this section, the City Council shall, by resolution or
ordinance, disapprove or reject such adoption, revision or revocation of rules
and regulations, such action of the Board of Public Works in adopting, revising
or revoking rules and regulations shall be of no effect.
   (D)   Provided the adoption, revision or revocation of rules and regulations
by the Board of Public Works pursuant to this section has not been disapproved
or rejected by the City Council within 30 days after notice is given the City
Council or such adoption, revision or revocation, the adoption, revision or
revocation shall become effective 30 days after such notice and following
compliance with any applicable requirements for publication.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-3)
§ 134.004 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, where premises are in
violation of any section of this chapter, is hereby empowered to enter upon the
premises and may thereupon correct the unclean conditions and place a lien on
such land in the same amount in accordance with the procedure provided for
abatement of unwholesome environmental conditions, but such person shall also
be liable in an action to recover the aforesaid penalty.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-4)
§ 134.005 RECOVERY BY CITY OF EXPENSES OF LITTER REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city is damaged by the depositing of litter within the city, and
the cost of litter removal has become a significant expense of the city.
      (1)   It is intended that persons responsible for such expenses shall
bear the costs of same.
      (2)   In order to recover the cost of litter removal, the city may bring
a civil action against any person believed to be responsible for depositing
litter.
      (3)   The city may, in order to avoid the necessity of the institution of
such action, make an offer of settlement to any person believed to be
responsible for depositing litter. If the settlement offer is accepted, no
action will be instituted by the city.
   (B)   The Department of Public Works and the Police Department:
      (1)   Shall be responsible for determining the identity of persons
responsible for damaging the city by depositing litter within the city; and
      (2)   Except as provided in division (D) below, are hereby empowered, as
agents of the city, to make to any person believed to be responsible for
damaging the city by depositing litter within the city, an offer of settlement.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works shall determine a standard amount of
settlement offer authorized to be made by this section. In determining the
standard amount of the settlement offer, the Board of Public Works shall
consider only such factors as may reasonably be considered when any individual
offer of settlement is determined.
   (D)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not be construed to require
that a settlement offer be made if the amount of damage caused by the litter
being deposited in the city is significantly greater than the standard amount
of the settlement offer determined by the Board of Public Works pursuant to
division (C) above.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-5)
VEHICULAR WASTE ON PUBLIC STREETS
§ 134.020 VEHICLES DROPPING CONTENTS ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport in any vehicle or by any
other means or manner any loose material or articles likely to sift, fall,
spill or be blown about on any public street, alley or other public way in the
city.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.021 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE DISPOSAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, to overload such vehicles. Each
operator of such a vehicle shall cover the contents or shall convey the
contents in tightly secured and covered boxes or other containers.
   (B)   In case any of the contents of such vehicles shall become blown or
scattered upon any public street, alley or other public way or place in the
city, the person in charge thereof shall immediately gather up or cause to be
gathered up any such blown or scattered material.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY
§ 134.035 LITTER COLLECTION AND STORAGE AREAS.
   Every owner or occupant or lessee of a house or building used for residence,
business or commercial purpose shall maintain litter collection and storage
areas in a clean condition and ensure that all litter is properly
containerized. Failure to so maintain clean litter collection and storage areas
shall constitute a violation of this section.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.036 DUTY TO COLLECT LITTER.
   All litter that is subject to movement by the elements shall be secured by
the owner of the premises where it is found before the same is allowed to be
removed by the elements to adjoining premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-11)
§ 134.037 NEGLECTED PREMISES VISIBLE TO THE PUBLIC.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling a house or other
building or premises, including vacant lots visible from any public place or
private premises, to maintain such premises in a reasonably clean and orderly
manner and to a standard conforming to other orderly premises in that vicinity.
It shall be a violation of this section to abandon, neglect or disregard the
condition or appearance of any premises so as to permit it to accumulate litter
thereon.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.038 AREAS AROUND BUSINESS PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any public place, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, shopping centers, fast-food outlets, stores, hotels,
motels, industrial establishments, office buildings, apartment buildings,
housing projects, gas stations and hospitals and clinics, shall at all times
keep the premises clean of all litter, and shall take measures, including daily
cleanup of the premises, to prevent litter from being carried by the elements
to adjoining premises.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section to abandon, neglect or
disregard the condition or appearance of such premises so as to permit it to
accumulate litter thereon.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.039 LOADING OR UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall at all times maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried by the elements to adjoining
premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.040 CONSTRUCTION SITES; CLEAN CONDITION.
   The property owners and the prime contractors in charge of any construction
site shall maintain the construction site in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried by the elements to adjoining premises. All litter
from construction activities or any related activities shall be picked up at
the end of each workday and placed in containers which will prevent litter from
being carried by the elements to adjoining premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.041 MAINTAINING SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any premises shall keep the
sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter. In residential areas,
owners or occupants shall sweep or rinse off the sidewalks abutting their
premises as often as may be required to keep the walk and street reasonably
free from dirt, paper and waste. Alleyways shall always remain free and clear
from any obstructions so that utility companies and emergency personnel may
utilize the alleyways in the event of an emergency or service outage. All
persons owning, occupying, or in control of any premises adjacent to an
alleyway may utilize land near the alleyway for gardening, planting, etc., but
all items must be at least two feet away from the alleyway for gardening.
However, in any event where utility workers, city employees, or emergency
personnel are obstructed by any object including but not limited to flowers,
shrubs, etc., the items obstructing the alleyway shall be removed or destroyed
from the alleyway at the discretion of the utility company, city employee, or
emergency personnel. All owners or persons controlling premises in the Central
Business District of the city shall, at least once each 24 hours, except when
the business is closed, sweep the sidewalks in front of their premises down to
the curb, and gather up and remove all loose paper and refuse.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-16) (Ord. 11-22, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.042 ABANDONED GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is in control of any premises upon
which is located or on whose behalf there is maintained any container of
refuse, waste or garbage which has been containerized in accordance with a
contract for its removal to allow that refuse, waste or garbage to remain
uncollected beyond the date provided by the contract for its collection and
removal, or in any case to allow that container to remain unemptied for longer
than 14 days or in any case until after that refuse, waste or garbage creates
any condition which is offensive to persons upon any private premises or public
place.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.043 NEGLECTED REFUSE CONTAINERS; CONTRACTOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has contracted to collect and remove
that refuse, waste or garbage described above to allow that refuse, waste or
garbage to remain uncollected beyond the date provided by the contract for its
collection and removal, or in any case to allow that container to remain un-
emptied for longer than 14 days or in any case until after that refuse, waste
or garbage creates any condition which is offensive to persons upon any private
premises or public place. A violation of this section may be abated by the city
in accordance with the provision of §
134.004; provided, however, that in lieu of the lien thereon provided the
container in question may be impounded and a lien be executed against any
property held in connection with the business of collecting refuse, waste or
garbage by that person who has agreed by contract to collect and remove that
refuse, waste or garbage in question.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
LITTER RECEPTACLES
§ 134.055 PUBLIC PLACES.
   Every owner, occupant, tenant or lessee using or occupying any public place
shall provide adequate litter receptacles of sizes, numbers and types as
required to contain all litter generated by those persons frequenting that
public place, and as specified by the Director of Public Works for all public
places.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-22) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984)
§ 134.056 PARKING LOTS.
   Any parking lot shall be equipped with litter receptacles in compliance with
this section and the regulations issued pursuant to §
134.003.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-23) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.057 PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The owner or person in control of private premises shall maintain litter
receptacles for collection of litter as necessary or as required by regulations
made pursuant to §
134.003, and in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried
by the elements to adjoining premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-24) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.058 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Litter receptacles shall comply in size, material and all other
characteristics with the specification of regulations made pursuant to §
134.003.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-25) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.059 PERIODIC EMPTYING OF RECEPTACLES.
   All litter shall be removed periodically from litter receptacles as
necessary to maintain their usefulness, and in accordance with regulations made
pursuant to §
134.003.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-26) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.060 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in litter receptacles shall do so in such manner as
to prevent litter from being carried from the receptacles by the elements.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-27) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.061 UPSETTING OR TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall cause the removal, upsetting, mutilation, defacing or
tampering with litter receptacles or cause the contents thereof to be spilled
or to be strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-28) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.062 LITTER RECEPTACLES OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   Litter receptacles shall not be placed in any location where they may
obstruct vehicular traffic or unreasonably obstruct pedestrian traffic.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-29) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.063 EXTERIOR OF LITTER RECEPTACLES.
   Litter receptacles located on publicly-owned property shall be conspicuously
identified and shall be free of commercial advertising.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-30) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.064 RECEPTACLES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE CITY.
   In the Central Business District, and in such other areas as the Department
of Transportation may deem advisable, it may cause to be placed in convenient
places litter receptacles, to be provided and serviced either by contract or by
direct operation by the city. The Department of Transportation may also
cooperate with any merchants’ association or civic group by permitting the
placing by the merchants’ association or civic group of litter receptacles in
the same or in any other area of the city.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-31) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984)
§ 134.065 CONTAINERS EXEMPT FROM THE PROVISIONS OF THIS CODE.
   No section of this code and no regulation made pursuant to this code shall
be construed to regulate the containers used in the collection of refuse, waste
or garbage which containers are regulated by city ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-32) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984)
HANDBILLS
§ 134.080 THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw, scatter or cast any kind of handbill in or upon any
public place within the city; and no person shall hand out or distribute or
sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, it shall
not be unlawful for any person to hand out or distribute handbills or any other
thing which is otherwise permitted and authorized by law in any public place to
any person willing to accept such handbill or other thing, without payment
therefor.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-35) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.081 PLACING HANDBILLS IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall deposit, fasten, throw, scatter or cast any handbill in or
upon any vehicle. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to
prohibit the handing of any noncommercial handbill to the owner or other
occupant of any vehicle who is willing to accept it without payment therefor.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-36) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.082 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS ON VACANT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall place any handbill in or upon any private premises which are
vacant, unless attached in such a manner as not to deface the property.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-37) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.083 PREMISES POSTED AGAINST HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION.
   No person shall place any handbill upon any premises if requested by anyone
thereon not to do so or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous
position near any entrance thereof a sign bearing notice indicating in any
manner that the occupants of said premises do not desire to have any such
handbills left upon said premises.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-38) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.084 MANNER OF HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION ON INHABITED PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall place any handbill in or upon any private premises which are
inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to any
other person then present in or upon the private premises; however, in case of
inhabited private premises which are not posted against handbill distribution
as provided in this chapter, any person, unless requested by someone upon such
premises not to do so, may place or deposit any handbill in or upon the
inhabited private premises, if the handbill is placed or deposited so as to
prevent it from being carried by the elements about such premises or elsewhere,
except that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal laws
or regulations.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-39) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.085 CLEANUP.
   Any person distributing handbills shall maintain the area which he or she is
utilizing free of any litter caused by or related to said handbill
distribution.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-40) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.086 ACTIVITIES EXEMPT FROM THE APPLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the
distribution of newspapers and political pamphlets.
(1999 Code, § 27-5-41) (Ord. 12-84, passed 10-23-1984)
CHAPTER 135: TRESPASS
Section
   
135.01   Trespasses prohibited
   
135.02   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression
§ 135.01 TRESPASSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
(1999 Code, § 27-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
135.01, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be
deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the
provisions of §
135.01, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this chapter;
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises of another, or any part thereof, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises, or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; and/or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to leave any such vehicle, aircraft
or watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1999 Code, § 27-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 136: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Parents and guardians responsible for acts
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Includes any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the city, whether such property is
owned by the state, county or governmental body or owned by any private person,
firm, partnership or association;
      (2)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, by means of fire or explosive
device, damaging, debasing or destroying any property of another person;
      (3)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently or knowingly starting a fire
on land of another person without his or her consent;
      (4)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly depositing on land or in the
building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and occupancy
by another of the land or building; or
      (5)   Maliciously, recklessly or knowingly, and without authority,
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another person without
his or her consent.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. Includes a foster parent, a person appointed guardian of a
person or given custody of a minor by a Circuit Court of this state, but does
not include a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor, or
appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor under 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.,
the State Juvenile Court Act.
   MINOR. Includes a person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18
years of age.
   PARENT. Includes the lawful father and mother of a minor child whether by
birth or adoption.
   PROPERTY. Includes any real estate including improvements thereon and
tangible personal property.
(1999 Code, § 27-7-1)
§ 136.02 PARENTS AND GUARDIANS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility, and said
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described herein with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian in violation of this chapter
upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B) and (C)
below:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property;
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the
city, following said adjudication or non-judicial sanctions; and
   (C)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set forth
in division (B) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of
any ordinance, law or statute as described in division (A) above, or shall have
incurred non judicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an
admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described
in division (A) above.
(1999 Code, § 27-7-2)
CHAPTER 137: OBSCENITY
Section
   
137.01   Generally
   
137.02   Harmful material
   
137.03   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributers
§ 137.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an obscenity when, with the
knowledge of the nature or content thereof or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers or provides or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. A thing is obscene if, considered as a whole, its
predominant appeal is to prurient interest; that is, shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters, a
thing is obscene even though the obscenity is latent, as in the case of
undeveloped photographs.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which material was designed or
to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or the absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest or absence thereof in advertising or
other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement or
possession of a mold, engraved plat or other embodiment or obscenity, specially
adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three
copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
(1999 Code, § 27-8-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.02 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a child; that is, a person under 18 years of age, or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly distributes
to, or sends or causes to be sent to, or exhibits to or offers to distribute or
exhibit any harmful material to a child is guilty of a violation of this code.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of material whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL. Material is harmful if, to the average person applying
contemporary standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest; that is, shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or
excretion which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation of such matters and is material, the redeeming
social importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents thereof.
      MATERIAL. Any writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom such material was offered, distributed, sent or exhibited unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case, the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution or publicity,
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is, in fact, substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided such
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in
this section culminates in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to
a child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees or agents as where the order or
request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone or similar
means of communication and delivery of such harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not under
the age of 18 years and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was
not under the age of 18 years:
      “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase
the matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states that he is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of obtaining the
material advertised herein is guilty of a misdemeanor.”
   (E)   Child falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states, either orally or in writing that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity
which is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1999 Code, § 27-8-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.03 TIE-IN SALES OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO DISTRIBUTERS.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or any agent, officer or employee thereof
engaged in the business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals, comic
books or other publications to retail dealers, who shall refuse to furnish to
any retail dealer such quantity of books, magazines, periodicals, comic books
or other publications as such retail dealer normally sells because the retail
dealer refuses to sell, or offer for sale, any books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books or other publications which are obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy
or indecent is guilty of an offense. Each publication sold or delivered in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 27-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 138: FIREWORKS
Section
   
138.01   Findings
   
138.02   Purpose
   
138.03   Scope of authority
   
138.04   Definitions
   
138.05   Prohibitions and unlawful acts
   
138.06   Exceptions
   
138.07   Public exhibitions; permit applications; content
   
138.08   Public exhibitions; permit applications; filing
§ 138.01 FINDINGS.
   The city has found that the widespread and uncontrolled sale and use of
fireworks causes substantial harm to persons and property. Such harm poses a
serious threat to the health, safety and general welfare of the community.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-1)
§ 138.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate the harm to health and property
within the city, and is designed to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens and protect property.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-2)
§ 138.03 SCOPE OF AUTHORITY.
   Unless exempted by provisions contained herein, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply to all persons within the city.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-3)
§ 138.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Police Chief of the City.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy
canes or toy guns in which any such explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, lady
fingers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, day-glo bombs, sparklers or
other devices containing any such explosive substance. The term FIREWORKS shall
not include model rockets and model rocket engines which are designed, sold and
used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, when actually used
for that purpose and used under the supervision of the science instructor or
other competent adult and when the place and time of firing the sky rockets or
missiles has been approved by the Police Chief. The term FIREWORKS shall not
include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps manufactured in accordance with the United States Department of
Transportation regulations for making and shipping of toy papers or plastic
caps are used and such toy paper or plastic caps are manufactured as provided
therein, except that no toy paper or plastic cap shall contain more than
twenty-five hundredths (0.25) of a grain of explosive composition per cap. Each
package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be
labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap. The sale and use of
these toy paper or plastic caps shall be permitted at all times. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as applying to the manufacture, storage, sale
or use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other
classes of public or private transportation, nor applying to the military or
naval forces of the United States or of this state, or to peace officers.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as forbidding the sale and use of
blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or athletic events.
   SELL or DISPLAY. Selling, offering to sell, possessing with intent to give
away, sell or offer the city.
   USE. Purchasing, possessing, setting off, causing to explode or discharge or
burn, any exhibiting, or to sell within or otherwise firecrackers, torpedo,
rocket or other fireworks or explosives of inflammable material, or to
discharge them or throw them from land, air or highway into any area of the
city. This prohibition includes any substance, compound, mixture or article
that in conjunction with any other substance or compound would be dangerous
from any of the foregoing standpoints. This provision shall also mean and
include casting, throwing, lighting or firing any squib, rocket, cracker,
torpedo, grenade, gun, revolver, pistol, cap or cartridge or other fireworks or
combustible firecrackers of any kind.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-4)
§ 138.05 PROHIBITIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell
or display, offer to sell, possess, give away, store or use fireworks within
the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit fireworks to be
used or exploded on his or her premises or premises under his or her control.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mishandle of misuse fireworks.
   (D)   The following constitute unlawful mishandling or misuse of fireworks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to throw any firework, whether such firework
is burning or not.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to throw or otherwise use fireworks from an
automobile or other motor vehicle, whether the vehicle is moving or standing
still.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to store, keep, sell or use any fireworks
within 50 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station, gasoline bulk
station or any building in which gasoline or volatile liquids are sold in
quantities in excess of one gallon.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use any fireworks within 1,000
feet of any hospital, sanitarium or infirmary.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use any fireworks in, under or
on an automobile or other motor vehicle, whether moving or standing still.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or use fireworks within 50 feet
of any retail fireworks stand or facility where fireworks are sold.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to mishandle or misuse fireworks in any other
way.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 138.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following exceptions shall apply.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for a person to possess the fireworks, specified in
division (C) below, on and between the dates of June 27 and July 5 of each
year; provided that, nothing in this provision shall be construed to allow the
sale or display of any fireworks.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for a person to use certain fireworks, herein
specified, on July 4 of each year between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:30 p.m.
   (C)   The following fireworks may be possessed or used, as provided in this
section, provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to allow the
possession or use of any firework that is not a Class C firework as defined by
federal law:
      (1)   Nonpoisonous snakes and items of similar composition;
      (2)   Roman candles, not exceeding ten balls with total pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding 20 grams in weight, and inside tube diameter not
exceeding three-eighths inch;
      (3)   Skyrockets with sticks, total pyrotechnic composition not exceeding
20 grams in weight, and inside tube diameter not exceeding one-half inch;
      (4)   Helicopter-type rockets, total pyrotechnic composition not
exceeding 20 grams in weight, and inside tube diameter not exceeding three-
fourths inch;
      (5)   Cylindrical fountains, with total pyrotechnic composition not
exceeding 75 grams in weight, and inside tube diameter not exceeding three-
fourths inch;
      (6)   Cone foundations, with total pyrotechnic composition not exceeding
50 grams in weight;
      (7)   Wheels, with total pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 60 grams
for each driver unit or 240 grams for each wheel, and with inside tube diameter
of driver units not exceeding one-half inch;
      (8)   Illuminating torches and colored fire in any form, with total
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 100 grams each;
      (9)   Dipped sticks, the pyrotechnic composition of which contains any
chlorate or perchlorate not exceeding five grams, and all sparklers;
      (10)   Mines and shells, of which the mortar is an integral part, total
pyrotechnic composition not exceeding 40 grams in weight;
      (11)   Firecrackers and salutes with casings, with external dimensions
not exceeding one and one-half inches in length and one-quarter inch in
diameter, and total composition not exceeding two grams each in weight; and
      (12)   Smoke devices known as smoke balls, or tubes containing a
pyrotechnic mixture which, upon ignition, produces a visible cloud of black,
white or colored smoke.
   (D)   Nothing in §
138.05 shall be construed as forbidding the possession or use of any fireworks
by those in charge of a public exhibition. Such an exhibition may be held on
any day or days of the year provided that it is held at a location which does
not endanger persons or property, and provided that a pyrotechnic expert is
used, and provided that those in charge of the exhibition obtain a permit and
comply with §§
138.07 and
138.08, and all applicable state laws or regulations.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-6)
§ 138.07 PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS; PERMIT APPLICATIONS; CONTENT.
   (A)   An applicant for a permit for a public exhibition or display of
fireworks shall file with the City Clerk a written application therefor, duly
subscribed and sworn by the applicant.
   (B)   Such application shall set forth the following:
      (1)   The name of the association, organization or corporation sponsoring
the display, together with the names of the persons to be in charge of the
display;
      (2)   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held;
      (3)   The exact location planned for the display;
      (4)   A description setting forth the name, age, address and experience
of the persons who are to do the actual firing and discharging of the
fireworks;
      (5)   The number and kinds of fireworks to be discharged;
      (6)   The manner and place of the storage of such fireworks between the
date of purchase and the date of display; and
      (7)   A diagram or sketch of the grounds on which the fireworks are to be
discharged, the location of all buildings, streets, trees, telephone or
telegraph lines or overhead obstructions within a distance of 50 yards of the
point of discharge, and the lines behind which the public will be restrained.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-7)
§ 138.08 PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS; PERMIT APPLICATIONS; FILING.
   An application for a permit for a public exhibition or display of fireworks
shall be filed with the City Clerk at least 20 days before the date set for the
display. A copy of such application shall be sent at once to the Chief of
Police, who shall make, or cause to be made, an investigation of the site of
the proposed display, and investigate the competence and skill of the persons
in charge of the firing and discharge of the fireworks. If satisfied that the
display will be conducted lawfully and in accordance with this chapter, he or
she shall so advise the City Clerk within ten days, at which time, the City
Clerk shall issue the permit. The applicant for a permit shall, at the time of
filing application therefor, pay to the City Clerk a fee of $100, which sum
shall be refunded in the event the application for such permit is denied. Each
applicant shall also pay to the City Clerk a non-refundable investigation fee
of $30.
(1999 Code, § 27-9-8)
CHAPTER 139: OFFENSES INVOLVING DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
139.01   Definitions
   
139.02   Possession of cannabis prohibited
   
139.03   Possession of synthetic cannabis
   
139.04   Possession of synthetic cocaine or substances containing cocaine
   
139.05   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
139.06   Possession of drugs on city property
§ 139.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions. When used in this section, the following terms shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
   CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish or other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seeds of such plant. CANNABIS shall also
include any substance defined as cannabis in Section 3 of the Illinois Cannabis
Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/3, and as hereafter amended.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any substance as defined in Article II of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.
   DELIVER OR DELIVERY. Actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is
an agency relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind,
other than "methamphetamine manufacturing materials", as defined in 720 ILCS
646/10, which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation
of this section, the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 500/1 et seq., or the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq. The term includes,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing
the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled
substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home
for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
      (5)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes.
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (e)   Carburetor pipes;
         (f)   Electric pipes;
         (g)   Air driven pipes;
         (h)   Chillums;
         (i)   Bongs; and
         (j)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (6)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section.
   KNOWLEDGE. Knows, acts knowingly or with knowledge: (1) the nature or
attendant circumstances of his/her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he/she is consciously aware that his/her conduct is of such
nature or that such circumstances exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes
awareness of the substantial probability that such fact exists; (2) the result
of his/her conduct, described by the section defining the offense, when he/she
is consciously aware that such result is likely to be caused by his/her
conduct; and (3) knowledge may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances.
   MANUFACTURE. The production, preparation, propagation, compounding,
conversion or processing of cannabis, synthetic cocaine or a substance
containing cocaine, either directly or indirectly, by extraction from
substances of natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis,
and includes any packaging or repackaging of cannabis, synthetic cocaine or a
substance contacting cocaine or labeling of its container; except, that this
term does not include the preparation, compounding, packaging or labeling of
cannabis as an incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and
not for sale.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership or association, or any other entity.
   POSSESSION. May be either actual or constructive: (1) ACTUAL POSSESSION
means exercising physical dominion; and (2) CONSTRUCTIVE POSSESSION may be
inferred if the defendant has intent and capacity to maintain control and
domiaionnver the cannabis, synthetic cocaine or substance containing cocaine.
   PRODUCE or PRODUCTION. Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABIS. Includes the brand names K2 and spice. The term is an
herbal and chemical product which mimics the effects of cannabis including, but
not limited to, synthetic cannabinoids, cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-073
and HU-210.
   SYNTHETIC COCAINE, BATH SALTS or SUBSTANCES CONTAINING COCAINE: Includes,
but not limited to, the names, MDPK, magic, super coke, PV, ivory wave, ocean,
cloud nine, charge plus, white lightning, scarface, hurricane, charlie red dove
and white dove. They are herbal and chemical products which mimic the effects
of cocaine including, but not limited to, methylenedioxypyrovalerone (a
psychoactive drug) or cathinone derivatives. BATH SALTS is a substance that
contains methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) or contains a norepinephrine-
dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI).
(Ord. 02-17, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 139.02 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Violation. No person shall possess ten grams (10g) or less of any
substance containing cannabis.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a court of
law shall be punished by a minimum fine of not less than $250 and no more than
$750.
   (C)   Administrative Fee. In addition, any person who violates any provision
of this section and is convicted, pleads guilty, and receives court supervision
or probation by a court of law shall be ordered to pay an administrative fee of
$100 to be paid to the law enforcement agency for testing of the substance(s)
collected.
   (D)   Forfeiture. Any items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to 720
ILCS 550/12 may be forfeited in the same manner as described therein for a
violation of this section.
   (E)   Exceptions. Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses, or is
in possession of cannabis for research purposes pursuant to 720 ILCS 550/11, as
hereafter amended, shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 139.03 POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABIS.
   (A)   Possession prohibited. No person shall possess any substance
containing synthetic cannabis.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a court of
law shall be punished by a minimum fine of not less than $250 and no more than
$750.
   (C)   Administrative fee. In addition, any person who violates any provision
of this section and is convicted, pleads guilty, receives court supervision or
probation by a court of law shall be ordered to pay an administrative fee of
$100 to be paid to the law enforcement agency for the testing of the substance
(s) collected.
   (D)   Forfeiture. Any items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to 720
ILCS 550/12 maybe forfeited in the same manner as described therein for a
violation of this section.
   (E)   Exceptions. Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses, or is
in possession of any synthetic cannabis for research purposes pursuant to 720
ILCS 550/11, as hereafter amended, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 139.04 POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC COCALNE OR SUBSTANCES CONTAINING COCAINE.
   (A)   Possession prohibited. No person shall possess any substance
containing synthetic cocaine or a substance containing cocaine.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a court of
law shall be punished by a minimum fine of not less than $250 and no more than
$750.
   (C)   Administrative fee. In addition, any person who violates any provision
of this section and is convicted, pleads guilty, receives court supervision or
probation by a court of law shall be ordered to pay an administrative fee of
$100 to be paid to the law enforcement agency for testing of the substance(s)
collected.
   (D)   Forfeiture of seized items. Any items which may be seized or forfeited
pursuant to 720 ILCS 550/12 may be forfeited in the same manner as described
therein for a violation of this section.
   (E)   Exemptions. Any person who manufactures, distributes, dispenses, or is
in possession of any synthetic cocaine or substances containing cocaine for
research purposes shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 139.05 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Violation. No person shall knowingly possess any item of drug
paraphernalia with the intent to use it for the purpose of unlawfully
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled
substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance for that use within the corporate limits of the city. In determining
intent for purposes of this section, the trier of fact may take into
consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled substances to drug
paraphernalia or the.presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on the drug
paraphernalia.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a court of
law for violating this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$250 and no more than $750.
   (C)   Forfeiture. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, as defined in §
139.01, seized by police officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice
to appear for a violation of this section, shall be forfeited to the city upon
a plea of guilty, a finding of guilt and/or a disposition of court supervision
or probation by a court of law or upon the individual utilizing any
administrative remedy allowed by the city without further order of the court.
Any other items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 600/5 may
be forfeited in the same manner as described therein for a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer
for sale, sell, or deliver for any commercial consideration any item of drug
paraphernalia within the corporate limits of the city.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling, or
other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to lawful
research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
      (2)   Items historically and customarily used in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
or inhaling tobacco or any other lawful substance unless such item has the
presence of cannabis or a controlled substance. Items exempt under this
division include, but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies,
tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers.
      (3)   Items listed in the definition of DRUG PARAPHERNALIA in §
139.01, if said items are used solely for decorative purposes, when such items
have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any
illicit purposes prohibited by this section.
      (4)   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes
or needles under the hypodermic syringes and needles act, 720 ILCS 635/0.01 et
seq.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person who pleads guilty or is found guilty by a court of
law for violating this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$250 and no more than $750 for each item of drug paraphernalia.
   (G)   Forfeiture. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, as defined in §
139.01, seized by police officers pursuant to an arrest or issuance of a notice
to appear for a violation of this section, shall be forfeited to the city upon
a plea of guilty, a finding of guilt and/or a disposition of court supervision
or probation by a court of law or upon the individual utilizing any
administrative remedy allowed by the city without further order of the court.
Any other items which may be seized or forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 600/5 may
be forfeited in the same manner as described therein for a violation of this
section.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 3-14-2017)
§ 139.06 POSSESSION OF DRUGS ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Possession or use of any controlled substance or drug, not prescribed by a
physician, upon any property owned by the city is prohibited. Any person who is
found guilty of violating the terms of this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $250 and no more than $750.
(Ord. 02-17, passed 3-14-2017)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DEVELOPMENT CODES
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN CODE
      
153.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
154.   SUBDIVISION CODE
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      
156.   NON-OWNER OCCUPIED DWELLINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.001   Definition
   
150.002   Prohibition
   
150.003   Abatement
   
150.004   Lien
   
150.005   Payment
   
150.006   Foreclosure of lien
Building as Nuisance
   
150.020   Building condition; nuisance
   
150.021   Time limit
   
150.022   Notification
   
150.023   Dangerous and unsafe buildings defined
   
150.024   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
150.025   Dangerous and unsafe buildings; nuisances
   
150.026   Duties of the Attorney
   
150.027   Liens
Building Operations
   
150.040   Use of streets
   
150.041   Night operations
   
150.042   Sidewalks
   
150.043   Safeguards
Smoke Detectors
   
150.055   New dwellings
   
150.056   Existing dwellings
   
150.057   Installation
Pools; Regulations
   
150.070   Compliance
   
150.071   Terms
   
150.072   Fencing required
Building Code
   
150.085   Adoption of Codes
   
150.086   Definitions in Building Code
   
150.087   Amendments to Building Code
   
150.088   Establishment of office of Building Inspector
   
150.089   Qualifications of Building Inspector
   
150.090   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.091   Compensation of Building Inspector
   
150.092   Bond of the Building Inspector
   
150.093   Cooperation of other officials
   
150.094   Right of entry
   
150.095   Building Commission
   
150.096   Notification to Building Inspector
   
150.097   Fees
Demolition of Structures
   
150.110   Regulations
   
150.111   Fast track demolitions
 
   
150.999   Penalty
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of its or
neighboring structures;
         (b)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
         (c)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable to cause injury
or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
and
         (d)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
      (2)   Any such DANGEROUS BUILDING in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 150.002 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the city and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person
in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or his or her designated representative, or any
other authorized officer of the city shall be of the opinion that any building
or structure in the city is a dangerous building, he or she shall file a
written statement to this effect with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be served upon the
owner thereof and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by
personal service.
   (C)   Such notices shall state that the building has been declared to be in
a dangerous condition, and that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that
the condition must be remedied at once.
   (D)   Such notice shall be served upon the proper parties not less than 15
days before the city shall file application with the County Circuit Court for
an order authorizing the demolition or repair of said building.
   (E)   Such notice may be in the following terms:
   “TO: _________________________________ (OWNER/OCCUPANT of premises) of the
premises known and described as
___________________________________________________.
   ‘You are hereby notified that
____________________________________________________
   _____________________ (describe building) on the premises above mentioned
has been condemned    as a nuisance and a dangerous building after inspection
by ______________________________.
   ‘The causes for this decision are
_________________________________________________
   __________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition)___________________.
   ‘You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately within
15 days from the date of this notice or the City will proceed to do so.”
   (F)   In the event that the building is not demolished or repaired or
altered within the 15-day period of time elapsing from the date of the service
of notice, then the city shall institute application before the County Circuit
Court requesting an order authorizing the demolition, alteration or repair of
said building premises and the cost of such entailments shall be recovered from
the owner or owners of such real estate and shall be a lien thereon.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 150.004 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for demolishing, repairing or altering of such building shall
be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner.
   (C)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof incurred by the city shall be
recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the costs and expenses incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said costs and expenses were incurred or
payable for the service by the city and shall be filed within 60 days after the
cost and expense is incurred.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 150.005 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in
whose name the lien has been filed, and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-5)
§ 150.006 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the city, after the
lien is in effect for 60 days.
(1999 Code, § 6-1-6)
BUILDING AS NUISANCE
§ 150.020 BUILDING CONDITION; NUISANCE.
   The Mayor or his or her designated representative shall report to the City
Council when any building in the city is in a dangerous condition and
constitutes a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 150.021 TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of such building shall repair or alter it so as to make it safe
within 30 days from the time the notice is served upon him or her in the manner
provided by law.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 16-19, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 150.022 NOTIFICATION.
   The Mayor or his or her designated representative shall place a notice on
all “dangerous and unsafe buildings”, which notice shall read as follows:
   “This building has been found to be a dangerous and unsafe building by the
Mayor. This notice shall remain on this building until it is repaired, vacated
or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent of this building, or person or persons in
whose name or names such building was last assessed, and all other persons
having an interest in said building as shown by the land records of the County
Recorder of Deeds. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such notice is
complied with.”
(1999 Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 150.023 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS DEFINED.
   All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed “dangerous and unsafe buildings”:
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 31% or more of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to cause injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communication;
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property;
   (I)   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of
this city;
   (J)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the Building
Code of this city, or any provision of the Fire Prevention Code, or any other
ordinances of the city;
   (K)   Those vacant buildings with unguarded openings shall be deemed to
constitute a fire hazard and to be unsafe within the provisions of this code;
and
   (L)   Those buildings which are uncompleted or abandoned.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 150.024 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Mayor or his
or her authorized representative in ordering repair, vacation or demolition.
   (A)   If the “dangerous and unsafe building” is in such condition as to make
it dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (B)   If the “dangerous and unsafe building” can reasonably be repaired so
that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this code, it shall
be ordered repaired.
   (C)   In any case where a “dangerous and unsafe building” is 50% damaged or
decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be
demolished, and in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this code, it shall be
demolished. In all cases where a “dangerous and unsafe building” is a fire
hazard existing or erected in violation of the terms of this code, or any
ordinance of the city, or statute of the state, it shall be demolished. See §
155.032 dealing with nonconforming uses of the Zoning Code.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 150.025 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS; NUISANCES.
   All dangerous and unsafe buildings within the terms of this subchapter are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated or
demolished as hereinbefore and hereinafter provided.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 150.026 DUTIES OF THE ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall apply to the Circuit Court for an order authorizing
the demolition, repair or vacation of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted or abandoned buildings when notices have not been complied with and
when requested to do so by the Mayor or his or her authorized representative.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 150.027 LIENS.
   (A)   The cost of repair, demolition, vacation or enclosure shall be
recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and shall be a lien
thereon, which lien shall be subordinate to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances; provided that within 60 days after said cost and expense is
incurred, the city or person performing the service by authority of the city,
in his or her or its own names, shall file notices of lien in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
therefor;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
   (C)   Upon payment of said cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in said property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city or person in whose name(s) the lien has been filed and
said release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of
mortgages or mechanics of lien. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced
within three years after the date of filing notice of lien.
(1999 Code, § 6-2-8)
BUILDING OPERATIONS
§ 150.040 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The use of streets for the storage of materials in the process of
construction or alteration of a building may be granted where the same will not
unduly interfere with traffic and will not reduce the usable width of the
roadway to less than 18 feet; provided, that no portion of the street other
than that directly abutting on the premises on which work is being done shall
be used, except with the consent of the owner or occupant of the premises
abutting on such portion.
   (B)   Any person seeking to make such use of the street shall file with the
City Clerk a bond with corporate sureties to be approved by the City Council,
to indemnify the city for any loss or damage which may be incurred by it by
reason of such use and occupation.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 150.041 NIGHT OPERATIONS.
   No construction or alteration operations shall be carried on at nighttime if
the same are accompanied by loud noises.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 150.042 SIDEWALKS.
   No sidewalk shall be obstructed in the course of building, construction or
alteration without a special permit from the Mayor or his or her authorized
representative being first obtained.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-3) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.043 SAFEGUARDS.
   It shall be the duty of the person doing any construction, altering or
wrecking work in the city to do the same with proper care for the safety of
persons and property. Warnings, barricades and lights shall be maintained
wherever necessary for the protection of pedestrians or traffic, and temporary
roofs over sidewalks shall be constructed wherever there is a danger to
pedestrians from falling articles or materials. See
Chapter 96 for additional requirements regarding streets.
(1999 Code, § 6-3-4) Penalty, see §
150.999
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 150.055 NEW DWELLINGS.
   The installation of a minimum of one smoke detector per dwelling unit is
hereby required for all new single and multiple occupancy residential dwellings
constructed after February 25, 1981. As an alternative to a smoke detector, a
fire detection system may be installed. No fire detection system shall be
installed unless a permit is issued therefor by the Fire Marshal.
(1999 Code, § 6-4-1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.056 EXISTING DWELLINGS.
   All existing single and multiple occupancy residential structures shall, by
February 25, 1984, or at the time of any change of occupancy, or when a
structural change or repair is made costing $1,000 or more, whichever occurs
first, shall have installed therein a minimum of one smoke detector per
dwelling unit or a fire detection system. No fire detection system shall be
installed unless a permit is issued therefor by the Fire Marshal.
(1999 Code, § 6-4-2) (Ord. 3-81, passed 2-25-1981) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 INSTALLATION.
   Each required smoke detector shall be mounted on the ceiling, or a wall not
more than 12 inches from the ceiling, at a point centrally located in a
corridor or area giving access to rooms used for sleeping purposes. In an
efficiency dwelling unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling of the main rooms. Where sleeping rooms are on an upper level, the
detector shall be placed at the center of the ceiling directly above the
stairway. Care should be exercised to ensure that the installation will not
interfere with the operating characteristics of the detector. When activated,
the detector shall provide an audible alarm in the dwelling unit. Smoke
detectors with D.C. power supply only are permitted, as are detectors with A.C.
power supply backed up by a secondary supply which is D.C. An A.C. only powered
unit is not permitted for residential type occupancies. Where A.C.-D.C.
combination units are used, it is required that all A.C. lines be wired
directly to the building’s power supply. All D.C. powered detectors shall have
built-in protection to warn of battery failure.
(1999 Code, § 6-4-3) Penalty, see §
150.999
POOLS; REGULATIONS
§ 150.070 COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install or enlarge any swimming
pool in the city, except in compliance with all the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 6-5-1) (Ord. 7-83, passed 8-23-1983) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 TERMS.
   The term SWIMMING POOL is hereby defined as a receptacle for water, or an
artificial pool of water having a depth at any point of more than two feet,
intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human
beings, and including all appurtenant equipment.
(1999 Code, § 6-5-2) (Ord. 7-83, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 150.072 FENCING REQUIRED.
   All outdoor swimming pools, hot tubs and spas shall be completely enclosed
by a fence. All fence openings or points of entry into pool area enclosure
shall be equipped with gates. The fence and gates shall be at least four feet,
six inches in height above the grade level and shall be constructed of a
minimum number nine-gauge woven wire mesh corrosion-resistant material, or of
other material having equivalent or better security characteristics and
approved by the Code Enforcement Officer of the city before construction. All
gates shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at
the top of the gate. The self-closing and self-latching gates shall be
maintained such that the gate will positively close and latch when released
from an open position of six inches from the gatepost. Fence posts shall be
decay or corrosion-resistant and shall be set in concrete bases.
(1999 Code, § 6-5-3) (Ord. 7-83, passed 8-23-1983; Ord. 04-13, passed 5-14-
2013) Penalty, see §
150.999
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.085 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   The Illinois Municipal Code allows municipalities such as the City of
Johnston City to adopt by reference certain codes as criteria for the issuance
of construction, reconstruction, alteration, installation, addition, repair,
removal, demolition, use, location, and/or occupancy permits, and to regulate
maintenance of all buildings and structures in the city.
   (B)   The following codes are hereby adopted for governing and regulating
the conditions and standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and the City Clerk is instructed to
keep at least one copy of each such Code in City Hall:
      (1)   International Building Code (2018 edition).
      (2)   International Property Maintenance Code (2018 edition).
      (3)   National Electrical Code (2017 edition).
      (4)   National Fire Protection Association 101 Life Safety Code (2015
edition).
      (5)   International Fire Code (2018 edition).
(Ord. 18-24, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 150.086 DEFINITIONS IN BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Building Code, it shall
be held to mean the City of Johnston City, Illinois.
   (B)   Wherever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL is used in the Building Code, it
shall be held to mean the Attorney for the city.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-2)
§ 150.087 AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE.
   The Building Code herein adopted is amended and changed in the following
respects.
   (A)   Article 27, Electric Wiring, Equipment, and Systems, is hereby deleted
from this Code.
   (B)   Article 28, Plumbing System, is hereby deleted from this Code.
   (C)   Article 29, Signs, is hereby deleted from this Code.
   (D)   Section 112.5, Approved Plans, is hereby amended by changing the
section to read as follows instead of the language as it now appears therein:
   “Approved Plans: The Building Inspector shall stamp or endorse in writing
three sets of corrected plans Approved and two sets of such approved plans
shall be retained by the Building Inspector and the other set shall be kept at
the building site, open to inspection of the Building Inspector or an
unauthorized representative at all reasonable times. One set of the approved
plans of every building or structure other than temporary structures shall be
kept in file in the office of the Building Inspector until such time as final
inspection is made and work certified by the Building Inspector as complete at
which time such plans may be returned to the owner.”
(1999 Code, § 6-6-3)
§ 150.088 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The office of Building Inspector is hereby created, and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. His or her appointment shall continue during good
behavior and satisfactory service. He or she shall not be removed from office
except for cause after full opportunity has been given him or her to be heard
on specific charges.
   (C)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Building Inspector,
the City Consulting Engineer shall be empowered to exercise the duties of the
Building Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-4)
§ 150.089 QUALIFICATIONS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   To be eligible to appointment, the candidate for the position of Building
Inspector shall have had experience as an architect or structural engineer or
building inspector or superintendent of building construction. He or she shall
be in good health, physically capable of making the necessary examinations and
inspections. He or she shall not have any interest whatever, directly or
indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of any material, process or device
entering into or used in or in connection with building construction,
alterations, removal and demolition.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-5)
§ 150.090 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall devote full time to the duties of his or
her office.
      (1)   He or she shall receive applications required by this code, issue
permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He or she shall examine
premises for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and that
construction is prosecuted safely. He or she shall enforce all provisions of
the Building Code. He or she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when
the public interest so required, make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in the Building Code and render written reports on the same.
      (2)   To enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction, or to
require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures, he or she shall
issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   Inspections required under the provisions of the Building Code shall
be made by the Building Inspector, or his or her duly appointed assistant.
      (1)   The Building Inspector may accept reports of inspectors or
recognized inspection service, after investigation of their qualifications and
reliability.
      (2)   No certificate called for by any provision of the Building Code
shall be issued on such reports unless the same are in writing and certified to
by a responsible officer of such service.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He or she shall retain on
file copies of required plans and all documents relating to building work so
long as any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in
existence.
   (D)   All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from
the office of the Building Inspector without his or her written consent.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall make written reports to his or her
immediate superior once each month, or more often if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
   (F)   The Building Inspector shall also be responsible for the enforcement
of the zoning regulations of the city and take all actions necessary as
prescribed in this section as same would apply to enforcement of the zoning
regulations.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-6)
§ 150.091 COMPENSATION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall receive from the city, a salary to be
determined by the City Council from year to year.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-7)
§ 150.092 BOND OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall post a penal bond in the amount of $2,000,
which is to be a commercial surety bond, premium therefor to be paid in
compliance with §
31.058.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-8)
§ 150.093 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building Inspector may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation
of other officials of the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-9)
§ 150.094 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-10)
§ 150.095 BUILDING COMMISSION.
   (A)   A Building Commission is hereby created. The Building Commission shall
consist of five members.
   (B)   The Building Commission shall consult with and advise the Building
Inspector on the enforcement and interpretation of the Building Code and shall
make recommendations to the City Council for amendments to the Building Code to
keep it up to date and make the necessary changes from time to time.
   (C)   The Building Commission shall meet upon, call to listen to complaints
and rule one the same.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-11) (Ord. 316, passed - -)
§ 150.096 NOTIFICATION TO BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be notified:
      (1)   Prior to pouring the footings;
      (2)   After completion of framing prior to interior finishing; and
      (3)   After completion and prior to occupancy.
   (B)   The Building Official shall examine the work within one day after
receipt of notice that the work is ready for inspection.
   (C)   Upon satisfactory completion of the construction, the Building
Inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-12) (Ord. 316, passed - -)
§ 150.097 FEES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall collect the following fees for permits
issued, which said fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the permit.
 
Valuation         Fee
Under $1,000      No charge
$1,001 to $5,000  $3
$5,001 to $10,000 $5
$10,001 or more   $10
 
   (B)   Regardless of valuation, a permit is required:
      (1)   Wherever more than three trips shall be required by the Building
Inspector for the purpose of making the test required by this code on defective
material or defective work performed on the job, or for the purpose of
designing a plan for work, the person obtaining the permit shall pay to the
Building Inspector in addition to the fees set forth above, the sum of $3 for
each trip in excess of three trips;
      (2)   For a permit for the removal of a building or structure from one
lot to another, the fee shall be at the rate of $10 per removal;
      (3)   For a permit for the removal of a building or structure to a new
location within the same lot, the fee shall be at the rate of $3 per $1,000 of
the estimated cost of moving, of new foundations and of work necessary to put
the building or structure in usable condition in its new location;
      (4)   For a permit for the demolition of a building or structure, the fee
shall be a rate of $20;
      (5)   In case of abandonment or discontinuance, the cost of work
performed under a permit may be estimated, an adjustment of the fee made and
the portion of the fee for uncompleted work returned to the permit holder,
provided that no refund of a prescribed minimum fee shall be made. If such
discontinuance is due to revocation of permit, a similar adjustment and return
may be made, provided that no refund shall be made until all penalties incurred
or imposed by due authority have been collected. After such a refund has been
made, no work shall be resumed until a new application has been made and a new
permit has been issued;
      (6)   The term ESTIMATED COST, as used in this section, means the
reasonable value of all service, labor, materials and use of scaffolding and
other appliances or devices entering into and necessary to the prosecution and
completion of the work ready for occupancy; provided that the cost of
excavation or grading and of painting, decorating or other work that is merely
for embellishment or not necessary for the same and lawful use of the building
or structure, is not deemed a part of such estimated cost;
      (7)   All applications for permits shall be made to the office of the
City Clerk with the proper amount of fee therefor based upon the estimated cost
at the time of application;
      (8)   Single and multi-family structures: $0.08 per square foot;
      (9)   Outbuildings, carports and accessory structures: $25 flat fee; and
      (10)   Commercial and industrial structures, over 50,000 square foot:
$0.06 per square foot.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-13) (Ord. 316, passed - -; Ord. 16-05, passed 12-13-2005)
DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES
§ 150.110 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Anyone desiring to demolish a structure shall obtain a permit from the
Building Inspector. The permit shall require such information as the Building
Inspector deems necessary. Before a permit shall be issued, the applicant shall
submit proof to the Building Inspector that all the utility companies connected
to this structure or premises have been notified to the impending demolition.
   (B)   The applicant is responsible to first notify all utility companies of
the demolition prior to beginning the project. All rules and regulations of the
utility companies along with the city code must be complied with before, during
and after the demolition project.
   (C)   The applicant shall fill only with masonry rubble, sand or clean dirt
up to the level grade of the existing surrounding area. The top layer of fill
shall be a minimum of 12 inches soluble soil, capable of encouraging
vegetation.
   (D)   The applicant shall comply with all regulations of the State and
United States Environmental Protection Agencies.
   (E)   Lumber, lathe or other organic materials shall not be permitted in the
fill.
   (F)   Material which is not suitable for fill material shall not be used,
but shall be removed from the site of the work and disposed of at the owner’s
expense.
   (G)   All of any materials to be disposed of shall be disposed of at a
state-approved disposal area.
   (H)   Any authorized material remaining on the premises at the completion of
the work will delay final acceptance until such material has been removed.
   (I)   The premises shall be left in an orderly condition, clean and free of
debris and/or building materials.
   (J)   The burning of materials is not authorized or permitted.
   (K)   Care shall be taken by the applicant to prevent the occurrence of
voids in the fill or undue settlement after the fill has been placed.
   (L)   The operation of the applicant shall be done in such a manner as to
avoid hazard to persons’ and properties’ interference with the use of adjacent
buildings or the interruption of free passage to and from such buildings.
   (M)   After work is started on the building, it should be continued promptly
and expeditiously. The applicant shall satisfactorily complete the work within
30 days from the date of issuance of the permit. If the work is not completed,
the city shall be entitled to make a claim to have the bonding company complete
the job.
   (N)   The applicant shall, at all times, reserve and comply with the federal
and state laws, local codes and regulations which effect the conduct of his or
her work.
   (O)   The applicant shall be solely responsible for all claims and
liabilities arising from or based upon the violation of any such laws, codes or
regulations, whether by himself or herself or his or her employees.
   (P)   The applicant shall provide the city with a performance bond in the
amount to be determined by the Building Inspector and the bond is to be
approved by the Building Inspector to guarantee that he or she shall comply
with all the terms of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 6-7-1) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.111 FAST TRACK DEMOLITIONS.
   Notwithstanding any of the terms and provisions of this chapter, the city
may utilize fast-track demolition proceedings as provided for in and pursuant
to the terms of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1(e) to expedite demolition of certain
properties and obtain a lien thereon, if a residential or commercial building
is three stories or less in height, as defined by the city's Building Code, and
the municipal official in charge of enforcing the Building Code determines that
the building is open and vacant and an immediate and continuing hazard to the
community, the building may be demolished, repaired or enclosed by the city, or
any garbage, debris and other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or
materials may be removed by the city, without the necessity of court
proceedings if the notice requirements as stated in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-l(e) are
complied with and no objections are raised, as provided for in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-
l(e).
(Ord. 09-23, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.070 through
150.072 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs.
      (1)   When the Housing and Zoning Inspector determines that a swimming
pool is in violation of §§
150.070 through
150.072, such Inspector shall notify the owner thereof in writing of the
violation.
      (2)   If the owner shall erect a fence conforming with the provisions of
§§
150.070 through
150.072 within ten days of the notice, then no further action shall be taken.
      (3)   If, however, the owner fails to erect a fence in compliance with §§
150.070 through
150.072 within ten days, then a citation shall be issued and further legal
action taken.
(1999 Code, § 6-5-4)
   (C)   (1)   Noncompliance.
         (a)   A person who shall violate a provision of §§
150.085 through
150.097, or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof,
or who shall erect, construct, alter or repair, or has erected, altered or
repaired a building or structured or portion thereof, in violation of a
detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or of a permit or
certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not less than $10, nor more than $500, or by imprisonment not exceeding
six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
         (b)   Also, the owner of a building or structure or portion thereof,
or of the premises where anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed
or shall exist, and an architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent, person
or corporation employed in connection therewith, and who may have assisted in
the commission of such violation shall each be guilty of a separate offense and
upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $500, or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Abatement. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall
not preclude the Corporation Counsel from instituting an appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct or
abate a violation, or to prevent the occupancy of a building or structure or
portion thereof, or of the premises, or to prevent an illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about any premises.
(1999 Code, § 6-6-14)
(Ord. 7-83, passed 8-23-1983)
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT CODES
Section
Plumbing Code Adopted
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   State Code adopted
   
151.03   Conformity of state license law is required
   
151.04   Administrative authority
   
151.05   Office of Plumbing Inspector created
   
151.06   Duties of Plumbing Inspector
   
151.07   City plumber’s license required
   
151.08   Bond
   
151.09   State license required
   
151.10   License fee
   
151.11   Plumbing permits
   
151.12   Fees for permits
   
151.13   Notification to Plumbing Inspector
   
151.14   Work on city property
   
151.15   Excavations in streets
PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
definitions as contained in this section shall take precedence over any other
accepted meaning including those contained in any reference material referred
to in this code.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following; sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and public or private water-
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure or conveyance;
also, the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension or alteration of storm water, liquid waste or sewerage, and water
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other acceptable terminal.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Installed receptacles, devices and appliances which are
supplied with water or which receive or discharge liquids or liquid borne
waste, with or without discharge into the drainage system with which they may
be directly or indirectly connected.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM. Includes the water supply and distribution pipes; plumbing
fixtures and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; building drains including their
respective connections, devices and appurtenances within the property lines of
the premises and water-treating or water-using equipment.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.02 STATE CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Plumbing Code as amended, and as revised is hereby adopted by
reference and is made a part of this code as though it were set out in full
herein. In cases of conflict between this state code and any other part of this
code to the extent of conflict, this state code shall prevail.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 5-86, passed 2-11-1986)
§ 151.03 CONFORMITY OF STATE LICENSE LAW IS REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereinafter engage in the business of plumbing in the city,
either as a plumbing contractor, employing plumber or journeyman plumber who
shall not comply with the license requirement of the plumber license law of the
state.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 300, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The administrative authority hereby designated to administer and enforce
this code shall be the Plumbing Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.05 OFFICE OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector of the city.
The Plumbing Inspector shall be subordinate to the Mayor. He or she shall have
such assistants to aid him or her and to whom he or she can delegate his or her
authority as the City Council may approve.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall not engage in the occupation or business
of plumbing, or be interested directly or in directly in any firm or
corporation engaged in the said business during his or her tenure of office.
   (C)   Unless otherwise designated by the City Council, the Water
Superintendent shall be the Plumbing Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.06 DUTIES OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Plumbing Inspector or his or her assistants shall sign and issue all
notices, permits and certificates required by this code. He or she shall pass
upon and approve all plans and surveys required by this code. He or she shall
keep a record of the performance of his or her duties, which shall include a
record of all notices issued, applications received and permits granted. He or
she shall keep a record of violations of this code. He or she shall inspect and
for the purpose thereof may enter all houses and other buildings in the course
of erection and all houses undergoing alteration or repair as often as may be
necessary to ensure conformance with the requirements of this code. He or she
shall compel all work on plumbing to be performed in accordance with the
provisions of this code. He or she shall cause to be kept a record of
measurements of all water and sewer taps in relation to property lines. He or
she shall collect all fees required by this code and pay the same to the City
Treasurer, or require same to be paid to the City Treasurer.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.07 CITY PLUMBER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Prior to doing business within the corporate limits of the city, any person
engaged in the business of plumbing and associated services shall obtain a city
license before commencing such work. It is incumbent upon and shall be the duty
of any person, individual, corporation or firm, preliminary to doing any such
plumbing work to notify the City Clerk of the city prior to engaging in such
business in the municipality.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. 13-67, passed - -)
§ 151.08 BOND.
   (A)   Application for a city plumber’s license shall be accompanied by a
bond to the city in the sum of $2,500 conditioned upon a full indemnity to the
city against damage to the city or to persons to whom the city may liable by
reason of:
      (1)   Failure of the firm to observe ordinances of the city pertaining to
plumbing, and the care of public streets, alleys and sidewalks;
      (2)   Failure of the firm to observe all rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the city pertaining to
plumbing, and the care of the public streets, alleys and sidewalks; or
      (3)   Negligence of the firm or its employees in performing or protecting
any plumbing work.
   (B)   Each bond shall be renewed at intervals of two years, or more often in
the event of the impairment of the surety. Such bond may be written by a
competent surety company, or may be secured by a deposit of cash or United
States government securities in the amount of such bond. The surety or security
shall be approved by the Mayor and be filed with the City Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-8) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.09 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any firm which shall employ plumbers in its business who are not licensed
under the plumbing license law of the state, shall have its city plumber’s
license revoked, and no new city license shall be issued to such firm for a
period of one year after such revocation. Such firm shall be entitled to a
hearing prior to such revocation, as provided by
Chapter 110.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-9) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.10 LICENSE FEE.
   The City Clerk shall issue a license to do plumbing work, such license to be
effective for a two-year period from issuance date after the filing of the bond
and the payment of a fee of $5 by the person, individual, firm or corporation
entering upon such work.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 13-67, passed - -)
§ 151.11 PLUMBING PERMITS.
   (A)   No plumbing shall be installed, altered or changed in any building or
structure within corporate limits of the city until a permit for such
installation, alteration or change shall have been obtained from the Plumbing
Inspector. The permit shall be issued only to a plumber contractor, employing
plumber or self-employed journeyman plumber registered and bonded under §
151.07, or such other person as specified in the State Plumbing Code, with the
words “and that the same will be occupied by said owner” removed. Application
for a permit shall be in accordance with the State Plumbing Code.
   (B)   After the permit shall have been issued by the Plumbing Inspector, no
change or modification in the plans or specifications shall be made unless such
change shall first have been submitted to the Plumbing Inspector and approved.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.12 FEES FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   The Plumbing Inspector shall collect the following fees for permits
issued, which said fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   The fee shall be the same in the case of alteration or change of
existing plumbing as in the case of the installation of new plumbing.
 
Item                                                   Fee
Each plumbing fixture                                  $1
Air conditioning unit (which require plumbing)         $1
Each floor drain                                       $0.50
Each sewer connection                                  $5
Each automatic washing machine                         $1.50
Each automatic clothes dryer (which requires plumbing) $1
 
(1999 Code, § 11-1-12) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.13 NOTIFICATION TO PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall be notified by the person doing the work when
any plumbing work is begun and when it is ready for inspection. All work shall
be left uncovered and convenient for examination until inspected and approved.
The Plumbing Inspector shall examine the work within one regular working day
after receipt of notice that the work is ready for inspection. All plumbing
must be tested in accordance with the State Plumbing Code in the presence of
the Plumbing Inspector and all defective materials and work replaced and
corrected. Upon satisfactory completion of the work, the Plumbing Inspector
shall issue a certificate of approval.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-13) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.14 WORK ON CITY PROPERTY.
   All plumbing of any nature, including the tapping of water mains and
sanitary sewer mains and the related branch water and sewer lines, on all city
property shall be done only by a plumber so licensed and bonded as required by
this code.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-14) (Ord. 300, passed - -)
§ 151.15 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS.
   No excavation shall be made in any street or alley by any plumber for any
purpose without a permit as provided by Chapter 96; provided, that the bond of
such plumber as required by Chapter 96 shall be sufficient for the fee for an
excavation permit, if approved by the Building Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 11-1-15)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN CODE
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Mayor and Aldermen of the city
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision and other development requirements
   
152.09   Variances
   
152.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   This code is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
the State Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and
5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-1)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood. The BASE
FLOOD elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites, telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This MAP includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the city
that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the city
are generally identified as such on panel number(s) of the county-wide flood
insurance rate map of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated August 4, 2008. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known
flooding as identified by the community. The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, or that may be annexed into the city are generally identified as such on
the flood insurance rate map prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated August 4, 2008.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODOROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Lake Creek and Shakerag
Tributary shall be as delineated on the county-wide flood insurance rate map of
the county, prepared by FEMA and dated August 4, 2008. The FLOODWAYS for each
of the remaining floodplains of the city shall be according to the best data
available from the federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminary determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; or
         (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
152.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SHFA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this code
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS BUILDINGS (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this code in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliance with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-2)
§ 152.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This code’s protection standard is the base flood.
   (B)   The best available base flood data are listed below.
   (C)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the existing
data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for approval prior
to any development of the site.
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Lake Creek and
Shakerag Tributary shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
county-wide flood insurance study of the county prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated August 4, 2008.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an AH
Zone or AO Zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county-
wide flood insurance rate map of the county.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A Zone on the flood insurance rate map of the county shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or local sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the
applicant to determine base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city or that may be annexed into the city, shall be delineated on the 100-year
flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 4, 2008.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-3)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF THE MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF THE CITY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be responsible for the general administration of this
code and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains under
the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this code.
   (B)   Specifically, the Mayor shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the Public
Health standards of §
152.09;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.09 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
152.11 as necessary to ensure compliance with this code;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this code;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this code;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this code and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-4)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Mayor or his or her designee.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall not issue a development permit
if the proposed development does not meet the requirements of this code.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07; and
         (e)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Mayor
or his or her designee shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this code.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this code.
   (C)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance
rate map identification.
   (D)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits,
approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of
activity. The Mayor or his or her designee shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-5) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within all floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall
be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety.
      (2)   The following specific development activities shall be considered
as meeting this requirement:
         (a)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
         (b)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
         (c)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
         (d)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
         (e)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
         (f)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
         (g)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
         (h)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
         (i)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 11; and
         (j)   Any development determined by IDOT/DWR to be located entirely in
a flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in (A) may be permitted only
if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDOT/DWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDOT/DWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary to approve
a revision of the regulatory map and base flood elevation.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-6)
§ 152.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be protected from
flood damage below the flood protection elevation.
      (2)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
         (b)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building;
         (c)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that
increase the floor area by more than 20%;
         (d)   Installing a manufactured home on an existing site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do
not apply to returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully
occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage); and
         (e)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by having a minimum or two
permanent openings no more than one foot above grade and providing a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris;
         (e)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (f)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (g)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
   (C)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on site for
more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement
by being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for 210 ILCS
405/1-1 et seq., the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, issued pursuant to 77
Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   (1)   Nonresidential building may be structurally floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer certifies that:
         (a)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and
the impact from debris and ice; and
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (2)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (D).
(1999 Code, § 15-1-7)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   (1)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation
agreements, planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection
standards of §§
152.06 and
152.07.
      (2)   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
         (a)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain
(where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
         (b)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
         (c)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that
the proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface
waters in accordance with the Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
   (B)   Public health standards must be met for all flood plain development.
In addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation, unless
such materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building
constructed according to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted, providing all manholes or other above ground openings
located below the flood protection elevation are water-tight.
   (C)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-8)
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this code place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Administrator for a
variance.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance
as it deems necessary to further the intent of this code.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates
that:
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety,
or creation of a nuisance;
         (e)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
         (f)   The applicants circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         (g)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
152.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
for $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      (3)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of division (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(e) above.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-9)
§ 152.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this code is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This code does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This code does not create liability on the part of the
city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this code or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-10)
§ 152.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This code repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City Council
to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program; however,
this code does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to
achieve eligibility in the program, nor does this code repeal, abrogate or
impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this code
and other ordinances, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-12) (Ord. 2-93, passed 4-13-1993)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this code.
   (B)   Upon due investigation, the Zoning Administrator may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this code exists.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
      (1)   If such owner fails after correct the violation:
         (a)   The city may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this code or make such other order a
court deems necessary to secure compliance with the code;
         (b)   Any person who violates this code shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500; and
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefor
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(1999 Code, § 15-1-11)
CHAPTER 153: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Established
Code Enforcement Officer
   
153.015   Office established
   
153.016   Officer’s duties
   
153.017   Access to premises
   
153.018   Exhibiting credentials
   
153.019   Inspection of premises
Unsafe Structures and Equipment
   
153.030   Condemnation of structures
   
153.031   Unsafe structure defined
   
153.032   Equipment defined
Unfit or Unlawful Structures
   
153.045   Structures unfit for occupancy
   
153.046   Unlawful structures defined
   
153.047   Vacant structures
Maintenance of the Exterior of Structures and Premises
   
153.060   Applicability of provisions
   
153.061   Maintenance by owner
   
153.062   Vacant structure conditions
   
153.063   Exterior premises
   
153.064   Garbage storage containers
   
153.065   Stagnant water
   
153.066   Loading and delivery areas
   
153.067   Responsibility for extermination of pets
   
153.068   Responsibility for exterior areas
   
153.069   Weeds and lawns
   
153.070   Storage yards and areas
   
153.071   Discharges to adjacent property
   
153.072   Accessory structures
   
153.073   Exterior of structures
   
153.074   Sanitary conditions
Notices and Posting
   
153.085   Notice to violator
   
153.086   Service of notice
   
153.087   Condemnation order; vacation of premises
   
153.088   Penalties for noncompliance
   
153.089   Issuance of condemnation notice
   
153.090   Continued use of structure
   
153.091   Lifting condemnation notice
   
153.092   Emergency action
Vehicles
   
153.105   Junk vehicle defined
   
153.106   Declared a nuisance
   
153.107   Issuance of citation; exceptions
   
153.108   Multiple vehicles for sale
   
153.109   Unlawful sale without license
   
153.110   Enclosure of motor vehicles
   
153.111   Dismantling of motor vehicles prohibited
   
153.112   Unlawful parking of vehicles
   
153.113   Commercial vehicles in Residential District
   
153.114   Recreational vehicles
   
153.115   Applicability of provisions
Violations and Remedies
   
153.130   Code violations
   
153.131   Noncompliance with order
   
153.132   Action by the City Council
   
153.133   Time constraints
   
153.134   Commencement of court proceedings
   
153.135   Sale of structure and materials
Applicability and Construction of this Code
   
153.150   Compliance with other codes
   
153.151   Abridgement of Zoning Code prohibited
   
153.152   Conflict and precedence of Code
   
153.153   Interpretation of Code
   
153.154   Enforcement of other ordinances
   
153.155   Compliance to existing remedies
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 ESTABLISHED.
   This code establishes the minimum requirements for the initial and continued
occupancy and use of all structures and premises, but does not replace or
modify requirements otherwise established by prior codes, ordinances, the
Housing Code and Building Code, which may be additional or more stringent than
the requirements set forth herein for the construction, repair, alteration or
use of structures, equipment or facilities.
(1999 Code, § 29-1-1)
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 153.015 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the appointed Code Enforcement
Officer, hereinafter referred to as “officer” or “officers”, to enforce the
provisions of this code as herein provided. The officer or officers shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 29-2-1)
§ 153.016 OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   The officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To enforce all the provisions of this code relative to the maintenance
of structures and premises except as may otherwise be specifically provided for
herein or by other codes or ordinances;
   (B)   To issue all necessary notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe
conditions in order to ensure compliance with this code’s requirements for the
safety, health and general welfare of the public;
   (C)   To enter any nonresidential structure at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making inspections and performing duties under this code when there
is sufficient exterior evidence of deterioration or neglect to warrant interior
inspection;
   (D)   To enter and conduct interior inspection of residential property or
structures for the purpose of determining the question of condemnation only
upon application to, and issuance of an order by a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing such entry; and
   (E)   To seek from a court of competent jurisdiction an order for an owner,
occupant or other person in charge of a premises to cease and desist in
refusing, impeding, inhibiting or obstructing the free access by the officer to
any part of a structure wherein inspection is sought.
(1999 Code, § 29-2-2)
§ 153.017 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Every occupant of a nonresidential structure or a premises shall give the
owner, his or her agent or employee access to any part of such structure or its
premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making inspections and such
repairs as are necessary to comply with the provisions of this code.
(1999 Code, § 29-2-3)
§ 153.018 EXHIBITING CREDENTIALS.
   The officer, or his or her authorized representative, shall disclose proper
credentials of his or her respective office for the purpose of entering into
any structure for the purpose of inspecting any and all buildings and premises
in the performance of his or her duties pursuant to this code.
(1999 Code, § 29-2-4)
§ 153.019 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Inspection of all premises, the issuance of notices and orders resulting
from such inspections and the enforcement of this code shall be the
responsibility of the officer; however, if, in the opinion of the officer
initiating an inspection under this code, he or she deems it necessary or
desirable to have inspections by other departments of the city, the officer
shall make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of such additional
inspections so as to minimize the number of visits by inspectors. The officer
shall confer with the other departments conducting inspections for the purpose
of eliminating conflicting orders or citations before any are issued. No
department conducting such inspections shall delay the issuance of any
emergency orders which it determines must be issued for the purpose of
conducting such a conference with other departments.
(1999 Code, § 29-2-5)
UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 153.030 CONDEMNATION OF STRUCTURES.
   When any structure or part thereof is determined by the officer to be
unsafe, or when a structure or part thereof is found unfit for human occupancy
or use, or is found to be unlawful, it may be condemned pursuant to the
provisions of this code and shall be posted with appropriate notice and
vacated. It shall not be re-occupied without approval of the officer. Unsafe
equipment located within a structure shall also be posted with appropriate
notice and placed out of service upon posting.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-1) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.031 UNSAFE STRUCTURE DEFINED.
   An unsafe structure is one in which all or part thereof is determined by the
officer to be dangerous to life, health, property or the safety of the public,
which includes its occupants, because it is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or unstable foundation that
it may partially or completely collapse.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-2)
§ 153.032 EQUIPMENT DEFINED.
   EQUIPMENT includes any boiler, heating unit, elevator, moving stairway,
electrical wiring or device, air conditioning system, flammable liquid
container or other type of equipment located within a structure or premises.
Such equipment is unsafe when it is in such disrepair or condition that it is
determined by the officer to be a hazard to life, health, property or safety of
the public or the occupants of the structure or premises wherein the equipment
is situated. Unsafe equipment may contribute to or be the cause of a finding
that the structure wherein it is situated is unsafe or unfit for human
occupancy or use.
(1999 Code, § 29-3-3)
UNFIT OR UNLAWFUL STRUCTURES
§ 153.045 STRUCTURES UNFIT FOR OCCUPANCY.
   A structure is unfit for human occupancy or use whenever the officer finds
that it is unsafe, unlawful or because of the degree in which it lacks
maintenance or is in disrepair, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains
filth and contamination or lacks proper ventilation, illumination, sanitary or
heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this code or any
other code or ordinance. Furthermore, a structure may be unfit for human
occupancy if its location constitutes a hazard to its occupants or to the
public.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-1)
§ 153.046 UNLAWFUL STRUCTURES DEFINED.
   An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in part to be occupied by
more persons than is permitted by the city code. An unlawful structure is also
one which was determined to have been erected, altered or occupied contrary to
the city code.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-2)
§ 153.047 VACANT STRUCTURES.
   If any structure or part thereof is vacant and unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use, but is not in danger of structural collapse, the officer
shall post a placard of condemnation on the premises and shall order the
structure closed up so it will not be an attractive nuisance to the public.
Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time specified in
the order, the officer shall cause the structure to be closed through any
available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons or
contractors. The cost for closing up the structure shall be charged against the
real estate upon which the structure is located and shall constitute a lien on
such real estate.
(1999 Code, § 29-4-3)
MAINTENANCE OF THE EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES
§ 153.060 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum conditions for
maintenance of the exterior of property, premises and structures. Premises
shall comply with the conditions herein prescribed insofar as they are
applicable.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-1)
§ 153.061 MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner of the premises or structure shall maintain the property in
compliance with the requirements set forth herein. A person shall not occupy,
as owner/occupant, or lease to another for occupancy or use, premises or
structures which do not comply with the requirements of this code.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-2) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 VACANT STRUCTURE CONDITIONS.
   All vacant structures and vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe,
secure and sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to cause blight or
to adversely affect the public health and safety.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-3) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 EXTERIOR PREMISES.
   All exterior property areas and premises shall be maintained in a clean,
safe and sanitary condition, free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
Storage of material must, at all times, be enclosed or screened from adjoining
property and from public view so as not to be visible from adjoining property
or from a public street.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-4) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064 GARBAGE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   The owner, manager or operator of every establishment producing garbage,
vegetable wastes or other putrescible materials shall provide, and at all
times, cause to be used, leak-proof containers having close-fitting covers for
storage of such materials until such time as they are removed from the premises
for disposal. The storage containers shall be located behind or to the sides of
a building. All storage containers which are greater than one yard in size
located in commercial areas shall be screened from residential areas and
residential streets so they are not visible. All storage containers which are
greater than four yards in size located in residential areas shall be screened
from view so as not to be visible from open areas.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-5) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.065 STAGNANT WATER.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained in such a manner so as to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-6) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.066 LOADING AND DELIVERY AREAS.
   All loading and delivery areas, automobile service stations and drive-in
food establishments shall be paved with bituminous, concrete or equivalent
surfacing and shall be free from dirt and other litter. The paved areas of such
establishments shall be kept in good repair. Exterior lighting of commercial
establishments shall be installed in such a manner so as to avoid illumination
of residential areas as much as possible.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-7) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.067 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXTERMINATION OF PESTS.
   An owner or manager of a structure or of property shall be responsible for
the extermination of insects, rats, vermin or other pests in all exterior areas
of the premises, except that the occupant of a single-family dwelling shall be
responsible for such extermination in the exterior areas of the premises.
Whenever infestation exists in the shared or public parts of a premises or
structure which is not a single-family dwelling, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner, manager or operator of the premises or structure.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-8) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.068 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXTERIOR AREAS.
   All sidewalks, steps, driveways, parking spaces and similar paved areas
privately owned, but used by the public, shall be free from mud and other
debris. If any sidewalk or driveway, or portion thereof, by virtue of its state
of disrepair shall constitute a danger to public health and safety, the
sidewalk or driveway, or portion thereof, shall be repaired or replaced.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-9) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.069 WEEDS AND LAWNS.
   All areas shall be kept free from weeds or wild plant growth. Lawns shall
not exceed eight inches in height.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-10) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.070 STORAGE YARDS AND AREAS.
   All open storage yards and open storage areas shall be completely obscured
from view from surrounding property by a solid screen fence not less than six
feet in height.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-11) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.071 DISCHARGES TO ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   No person shall construct, maintain or operate pipes, ducts, conductors,
fans or blowers in such a manner so as to discharge gases, steam vapor, hot
air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or particulate wastes directly upon
abutting or adjacent public or private property belonging to another.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-12) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.072 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls shall
be maintained structurally sound and in compliance with the requirements for
exterior structures set forth herein.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-13) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.073 EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   The exterior of a structure or building shall be maintained structurally
sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of the
occupants or other members of the public and shall be maintained so as to
protect the occupants from the elements.
   (A)   Structural members. All supporting structural members of all
structures and buildings shall be kept structurally sound, free of
deterioration and maintained so as to be capable of safely bearing the dead and
live loads located within such buildings and structures.
   (B)   Maintenance of foundations. Every foundation, exterior wall, roof and
all other exterior surfaces shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of
maintenance and repair.
   (C)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained so as to
carry the safe design and support the operating dead and live loads of the
building or structure. The foundations shall be maintained plumb and free from
open cracks and breaks and be kept in a state of repair so as not to be
detrimental to individual safety and welfare of citizens.
   (D)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks,
cracks, loose or rotting boards or timbers, and shall be free of any other
conditions of disrepair which might admit rain, dampness or wind to the
interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces within a building. All
exterior surface materials, including wood, composition or metal siding shall
be maintained weatherproof and shall be properly surface coated where necessary
in order to prevent deterioration.
   (E)   Roofs and roof drainage. Roofs of all buildings and other structures
shall be structurally sound, and shall not have defects which might admit
moisture. Roof drainage shall be such so as to prevent rainwater and other
types of moisture from causing dampness in the walls or the interior portion of
any building or structure.
   (F)   Maintenance of cornices. All cornices, entablatures, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in
good repair and shall be properly anchored to a building or structure so as to
be in a safe condition.
   (G)   Maintenance of overhang extensions. All canopies, marquees, signs,
metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes, gutters and downspouts, exhaust ducts
and similar overhang extensions shall be maintained in good repair and be
properly anchored so as to be kept in a safe and secure condition. They shall
be protected from the elements and against decay and rust by the periodic
application of a weather-coating material such as paint or by application of
other protective treatment material.
   (H)   Chimneys and appurtenances. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks
and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe, sound and in a
good state of repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected
from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-
coating materials such as paint or by treatment of a similar substance.
   (I)   Stairway, porch and balcony. Every stair, stairway, porch, balcony and
all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be so constructed and maintained so
as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the loads to which it is
subjected. They shall be kept in a sound condition and in good repair.
   (J)   Windows and doors. Every window, door and frame shall be constructed
and maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall constructions so as to
prevent rain and other types of moisture and wind from penetrating the interior
of the dwelling or structure. Every window sash shall be treated with approved
glazing materials and shall be free of cracks and holes.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-14) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.074 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Every occupant of a structure, building or part thereof, shall keep
that portion of the structure or premises which he or she occupies in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Every owner, manager or operator of a building containing two or more
dwelling units shall maintain the shared or public areas of the building in a
clean and sanitary condition.
      (1)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure or building
shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
rubbish containers equipped with tight-fitting covers.
      (2)   Garbage disposal facilities. Every occupant of a structure or part
thereof shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it
in garbage disposal facilities or, if such facilities are not available, by
removing all non-burnable matter and securely wrapping such garbage and placing
it in tight garbage storage containers or by disposing the garbage in such a
manner as may be approved by the city code or other ordinances.
      (3)   Placement of garbage. Rubbish and garbage shall not be placed on
the front property line for pick-up by the disposal service more than 24 hours
prior to the time such pick-up will occur.
      (4)   Building requirements for garbage. Every building shall be supplied
with an approved garbage disposal facility such as a mechanical sink grinder to
be located within each dwelling unit or with approved outside garbage can or
cans as required by this code. Such facilities shall be sufficient to meet the
needs of the occupants. Outside storage shall be no more than ten feet from the
building or a garage and shall be screened on all sides so as not to be visible
to adjoining residential structures.
      (5)   Approved containers. Every structure shall be equipped with
approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish and the owner, operator,
manager or agent in control of such a building shall be responsible for the
removal of such rubbish.
      (6)   Nonresidential structure. The owner or occupant of a nonresidential
structure or part thereof shall keep the equipment and fixtures located therein
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care in the proper use, operation and maintenance of such equipment
and fixtures.
(1999 Code, § 29-5-15) Penalty, see §
153.999
NOTICES AND POSTING
§ 153.085 NOTICE TO VIOLATOR.
   (A)   Whenever the officer determines there has been a violation of this
code or has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, or
whenever the officer has condemned a structure or equipment under the
provisions of this code, notice shall be given to the owner or the person or
persons responsible in the manner as prescribed below. If the officer has
condemned the property or part thereof, he or she shall give notice to the
owner and the occupants of his or her intent to post the property, to order
equipment out of service and that the occupants vacate the premises.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
posted; and
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs and improvements required to bring the structure into compliance with
the provisions of this code and other applicable codes and ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-1)
§ 153.086 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice required in the previous section shall be deemed to be
properly served upon such owner if a copy is delivered to the owner personally
or by leaving a copy of the notice at the usual place of the owner’s abode with
someone residing there of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of
the contents of the notice. Notice can also be served by certified mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the owner at his or her last known address. In
addition to the forms of service specified above, notice when the structure is
condemned must also include posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place
in or about the structure affected by such notice and at least one publication
of such notice in a local newspaper of general circulation within the city.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-2)
§ 153.087 CONDEMNATION ORDER; VACATION OF PREMISES.
   When a condemnation order is served on an occupant other than the owner or
person responsible for such compliance, a reasonable time to vacate the
property after noncompliance shall be allowed and stated in the order. Owners
or persons responsible for compliance, however, must vacate at the time set as
a deadline for correction of defects if there is a failure of compliance.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-3)
§ 153.088 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Penalties for noncompliance of orders and notices shall be in accordance
with §§
153.130 through
153.135 and 153.999
(1999 Code, § 29-6-4) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.089 ISSUANCE OF CONDEMNATION NOTICE.
   (A)   When the condemnation notice required under the provisions of this
code has been given and time allowed for repairs has expired without
compliance, the officer shall post on the premises or structure or parts
thereof, or on defective equipment, a placard bearing the words: “CONDEMNED AS
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY OR USE”.
   (B)   A statement of the penalties provided for any occupancy or use or for
removing the placard shall be noted on that placard. The owner, or the person
or persons responsible for the correction of violations, shall remove himself
or herself from the property for his or her failure to comply with the
correction order in the time specified; however, other occupants of the
property shall be given a reasonable amount of time thereafter to vacate.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-5)
§ 153.090 CONTINUED USE OF STRUCTURE.
   Any person who shall occupy a posted premises or structure or part thereof,
or shall use posted equipment, and any owner or person responsible for the
premises who shall let anyone occupy a posted premises shall be subject to the
penalties provided for herein.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-6) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.091 LIFTING CONDEMNATION NOTICE.
   (A)   The officer shall remove the condemnation card whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation and posting action were based have been
eliminated.
   (B)   Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation card without the
approval of the officer shall be subject to the penalties provided for herein.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-7) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.092 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   Whenever an officer finds that an emergency exists on any premises, or
in any structure or part thereof, or on any defective equipment which requires
immediate action to protect the public’s health and safety or the health and
safety of the occupants therein, the officer shall, with proper notice and
service in accordance with the provisions stated herein, issue an order
reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring the vacating of the
premises or such action taken as the Code Enforcement officer deems necessary
to meet such an emergency.
   (B)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this code to the contrary, such
order shall be effective immediately and the premises or equipment involved
shall be posted immediately upon service of the order. A copy of that order
shall be delivered to the Mayor and members of the City Council immediately
after it is issued.
(1999 Code, § 29-6-8)
VEHICLES
§ 153.105 JUNK VEHICLE DEFINED.
   (A)   A JUNK VEHICLE is any vehicle which is without a current valid license
plate and/or is in a rusted, wrecked, discharged, dismantled, partly
dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition.
   (B)   A JUNK VEHICLE is also a motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. A junk vehicle shall be classified as to its condition in one of the two
following categories:
      (1)   Restorable. A junk vehicle that is in a condition whereby repairs
to it could be made to place it in operating condition without exceeding its
estimated value when repaired. One such restorable vehicle shall be allowed on
a lot located in a residential area provided that it is enclosed within a
garage structure; and
      (2)   Wrecked. A junk vehicle in such a condition that it is economically
unsound to restore it to operating condition considering the cost of repairs to
be made, age of the vehicle, market value of the vehicle if it were restored or
if, in the opinion of the officer, it is determined that such a classification
for the vehicle is warranted. A wrecked vehicle shall not be allowed to remain
or be stored on any parcel within a designated residential area.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-1)
§ 153.106 DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   All junk vehicles, whether on public or private property and in view of the
general public, are hereby declared a nuisance, and any person who violates any
provision of this code pertaining thereto or who fails to obey a notice which
states that such person is to dispose of that vehicle under his or her control
shall be subject to the fines and penalties as provided for in §§
153.130 through
153.135.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-2) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.107 ISSUANCE OF CITATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   After ten days from the issuance of a citation, members of the Police
Department may enter upon public or private property and remove any junk
vehicle, or parts thereof, for the purpose of disposing of same. The cost(s)
for such removal shall be paid by the owner of the property; however, nothing
in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a
building, nor does this section apply to operable historic vehicles over 25
years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-3)
§ 153.108 MULTIPLE VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   The offering of two or more motor vehicles for sale at the same time on
private property located within a residentially zoned area is prohibited. At no
time and under no circumstances is the offering for sale of a junk vehicle or
the sale of vehicle parts permitted in open areas on private property unless
the property upon which it is situated is licensed by the city to permit such
sale. For the purpose of this section, a “For Sale” sign posted upon or
adjacent to a motor vehicle constitutes an offering for sale and is prohibited
unless specifically allowed herein.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-4)
§ 153.109 UNLAWFUL SALE WITHOUT LICENSE.
   Except as permitted by this code, it shall be unlawful to offer for sale any
vehicle at any location unless the location is licensed by the city to permit
such a sale. The owner of the vehicle, as well as the owner of the property
upon which it is located, shall be liable for any violations of this code which
pertain thereto.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-5) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.110 ENCLOSURE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, all unregistered, inoperable or junk motor
vehicles shall be garaged when in a residential district.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-6) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.111 DISMANTLING OF MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   Unless otherwise provided for herein, no motor vehicle which is in a state
of major disassembly, disrepair or which is being stripped or dismantled shall
be permitted on any property located within a residential or a nonresidential
district unless the property is licensed for such use. The major repair or
demolition of motor vehicles shall not be permitted in residential areas.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-7) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.112 UNLAWFUL PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   All vehicles parked in a residential district shall be parked on a street, a
clearly delineated driveway or within a garage. At no time shall a motor
vehicle be parked, stored or in any manner be placed on the front, side or rear
yards or otherwise allowed to create a nuisance to adjoining property owners by
placing the vehicle in areas other than herein provided.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-8) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.113 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No more than one commercial vehicle shall be parked, stored or housed
within a residential district.
   (B)   The commercial vehicle parked, stored or housed within a residential
district must be owned by or assigned to the owner of the premises where the
vehicle is situated and must be located on the owner’s lot in the residential
district.
   (C)   The vehicle must not exceed seven feet in height and shall not be a
school bus, tractor, trailer, dump truck, front loader, crane, tow truck or
similar vehicle.
   (D)   The commercial vehicle shall be parked to the side or rear of a
building so as to be screened from view from the public right-of-way as much as
possible.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, a COMMERCIAL VEHICLE is a vehicle
having been issued a B or a D license plate by the Secretary of State.
   (F)   All other commercial vehicles having greater than a D license plate
shall not be parked, stored or housed within a residential district.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-9) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.114 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this code shall not be construed to amend or alter any
provisions contained in other codes or ordinances regulating the parking and/or
storing of recreational vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-10)
§ 153.115 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   All provisions of this code shall apply to trailers and towable vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 29-7-11)
VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES
§ 153.130 CODE VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, alter, extend,
repair, remove, demolish, use or occupy any structure or equipment regulated by
this code when such conduct is contrary to or in conflict with or in violation
of any of the provisions stated herein.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-1) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.131 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   (A)   In case any violation order is not promptly complied with, the officer
may request the City Council to direct the city’s legal representative to
institute an appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction to collect the penalties provided for in §
153.999.
   (B)   Furthermore, subject to the provisions set forth in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1,
the officer may ask the City Council to authorize the city’s legal
representative to proceed at law or in equity against the person responsible
for the violation for the purpose of ordering that person:
      (1)   To restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further work at that structure(s);
      (2)   To restrain or correct the erection, installation or alteration of
such structure;
      (3)   To require the removal of work in violation of any provision of
this code; or
      (4)   To prevent the occupation or use of the structure or part thereof
erected, constructed, installed or altered in violation of or not in compliance
with the provisions of this code or which is in violation of a plan or
specification of which an approval, permit or certificate was issued by the
city.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-3) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.132 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   Subject to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, the officer may recommend to
the City Council that it direct the owner of the premises upon which is located
any structure or part thereof, which, in the officer’s judgment is so old,
dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use, to raze
and remove such a structure or part thereof. Furthermore, the City Council may
direct the owner of a premises to repair, make safe and make sanitary such a
structure if it can be repaired or to raze and remove such structure at the
owner’s option. The City Council may also direct the owner of the premises to
demolish a structure where there has been a cessation of normal construction of
the structure for a period of more than two years and the unfinished structure
is so deteriorated that it warrants demolition.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-4)
§ 153.133 TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   (A)   The order from the City Council shall specify a time in which the
owner shall comply therewith and specify repairs, if any, to be made. It shall
be served on the owner of record, or an agent where an agent is in charge of
the building and upon the holder of any encumbrance of record in the manner
provided for service of a summons by a court of record. If the owner or a
holder of the encumbrance of record cannot be found, the order may be served by
posting it on the main entrance of the building and by publishing it once each
week for three successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city.
   (B)   An extension of time to comply with an order of repair or demolition
issued by the City Council may be requested by the owner from the City Council
by filing such requests with the City Clerk within five days of receipt by the
owner of the notice of repair or demolition.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-5)
§ 153.134 COMMENCEMENT OF COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   In the event the owner of the premises fails or refuses to comply with
the order of the City Council, the City Council may direct the City Attorney to
commence court proceedings in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 to authorize
the demolition or repair of the structure.
   (B)   The requirements and provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 are incorporated
herein by reference, shall be strictly complied with and shall supersede and
take precedence over any provisions of this code or ordinances which are in
conflict therewith.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-6)
§ 153.135 SALE OF STRUCTURE AND MATERIALS.
   When any structure has been razed and removed, the City Council, or its
designated officer under a contract or arrangement for removal, may sell the
salvageable and valuable materials at the highest price obtainable. The net
proceeds of such a sale, after deducting the expenses of such razing and
removal, shall be promptly remitted to the City Clerk with a report of such a
sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amount deducted for
the benefit of any person, firm or corporation entitled to reimbursement for
such expenses. The report to be submitted shall so state if there are no sale
proceeds remaining to be remitted.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-7)
APPLICABILITY AND CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CODE
§ 153.150 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER CODES.
   Any repair, alteration or replacement of a structure or structural elements
or equipment in a building which may be required by the provisions of this code
shall be done in accordance with the applicable sections of the Building Code,
Electrical Code, Plumbing Code or other applicable code or ordinances of the
city.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-1) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.151 ABRIDGEMENT OF ZONING CODE PROHIBITED.
   The provisions of this code shall not be utilized or construed to permit the
abridgement or violation of the City Zoning Code.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-2)
§ 153.152 CONFLICT AND PRECEDENCE OF CODE.
   Specific provisions of this code take precedence over and prevail over any
other provisions of other codes or ordinances in conflict herewith.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-3)
§ 153.153 INTERPRETATION OF CODE.
   This code shall be construed liberally and justly to ensure public health,
safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the maintenance of
structures and premises.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-4)
§ 153.154 ENFORCEMENT OF OTHER ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other codes or ordinances or regulations which prescribe
standards other than those provided for herein.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-5)
§ 153.155 COMPLIANCE TO EXISTING REMEDIES.
   The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the city or its officers or agencies relating to the
removal or demolition of any building which is deemed to be dangerous, unsafe
and unsanitary.
(1999 Code, § 29-9-6)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, upon conviction of violating any provisions of this code, shall
be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each violation. The officer
is authorized to issue a citation for each day that a violation continues after
due notice has been served and each citation shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
(1999 Code, § 29-8-2)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Instances when plats will not be required
   
154.005   Interpretation
   
154.006   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.007   Review and expiration
   
154.008   Interpretation of terms
   
154.009   Definitions
Plats and Plans
   
154.020   Preliminary plats
   
154.021   Improvement plans
   
154.022   Assurance for completion of required improvements
   
154.023   Final plats
   
154.024   Maintenance of improvements
   
154.025   Vacation of plats
Administrative Procedures
   
154.040   Enforcement Officer; duties
   
154.041   Subdivision variances
   
154.042   Review by Plan Commission
   
154.043   Action by City Council; variance standards
   
154.044   Amendments
   
154.045   Schedule of fees
   
154.046   Fees; time of payment
Design and Improvement Standards
   
154.060   Generally
   
154.061   Lot requirements
   
154.062   Street design standards
   
154.063   Street improvement standards
   
154.064   Blocks
   
154.065   Sidewalks
   
154.066   Street lights
   
154.067   Street name signs
   
154.068   Utilities
   
154.069   Water facilities
   
154.070   Sanitary sewers
   
154.071   Drainage and storm sewers
   
154.072   General guidelines
   
154.073   Design criteria
   
154.074   Plan requirements
   
154.075   Inspection, maintenance and acceptance by city
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Figures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as and may be referred to as the
“Subdivision Code”.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-12-5, 5/11-12-8 through 5/
11-12-12; 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.) this code regulates the subdivision and
development of land in order to implement the comprehensive plan and official
map duly adopted by the city.
   (B)   Thus, this code assists in achieving the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
      (2)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
and efficient layout and use of land and by facilitating aesthetic urban
design;
      (3)   To establish accurate legal records, to avoid development in
wetland areas, and to avoid legal and other problems by requiring that
subdivided land be properly monumented and recorded;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements and
buildings throughout the city;
      (5)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city to the
maximum feasible extent, including preservation of such features as stands of
trees, streams, significant archaeological sites and historical landmarks;
      (6)   To provide adequate light, air and privacy for all residents of new
developments by preventing undue concentration of population;
      (7)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
flooding, storm water runoff or erosion and sedimentation;
      (8)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to
avoid traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the
proper location, design and construction of streets and sidewalks;
      (9)   To provide an environment whereby the cost of installing and
maintaining adequate water mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers and other
utilities and services can be kept at a minimum; and
      (10)   To ensure that adequate parks, schools and similar facilities can
be made available to serve the residents.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all planned developments, whether
residential, commercial or otherwise in nature, and to any other developments
whether a plat is required or not under the law, statutes, ordinances or
regulations of the governmental body or agency having jurisdiction or control,
and regardless of whether the same is labeled a subdivision or not, it being
the intent of this code to apply to all types of development, both within the
city and to areas lying within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits
of the city.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 154.004 INSTANCES WHEN PLATS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED.
   The provision of these regulations do not apply and no plat is required in
any of the following instances:
   (A)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access or add special utility easements;
   (B)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
add special utility easements;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
   (D)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or add
special utility easements;
   (E)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (F)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyances;
   (G)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
recorded on or before July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or
easements of access or add special utility easements;
   (H)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or add special
utility easements;
   (I)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract existing as of October 1, 1973.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-4)
§ 154.005 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Every provision of this code shall be construed liberally in favor of
the city, and every regulation set forth herein shall be considered the minimum
requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   More restrictive requirements apply. Whenever the requirements of this
code differ from those of any statute, lawfully adopted ordinance or
regulation, easement, covenant or deed restriction, the more stringent
requirement shall prevail. Thus, in accordance with state law whenever this
code imposes higher standards than the County Subdivision Code, said higher
standards shall supersede the county regulations in the unincorporated
territory located within the city’s subdivision jurisdiction.
(65 ILCS 5/11-12-11) (1999 Code, § 34-1-5)
§ 154.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, Council member, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this code. See Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort
Immunity Act, 745 ILCS 10/1-101.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, Council member, agent or
employee of the city, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this code, shall be defended by the City
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-6)
§ 154.007 REVIEW AND EXPIRATION.
   This code shall be reviewed by the Plan Commission every ten years for
necessary amendments.
(1999 Code, § 34-1-7)
§ 154.008 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS.
   In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this code, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in §
154.009; terms not defined in §
154.009 shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in the city’s
Zoning Code (
Chapter 155); if any term is not defined either in §
154.009 or in the Zoning Code, said term shall have its standard English
dictionary meaning.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
vice versa.
   (E)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is discretionary.
   (F)   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, divisions and the like) are
intended merely to facilitate general reference, and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
   (G)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (H)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1999 Code, § 34-2-1)
§ 154.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor and the City Council to
administer the Subdivision and Development Code.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street, and which
may be used for utility purposes.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this code, properly effected in
accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
   AREA, BUILDING. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
unenclosed patios, terraces and steps.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed
for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
   AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with intersections
at grade, and on which traffic-control devices are used to expedite the safe
movement of through traffic.
   BARRIER (NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL). Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment or screening by a fence or hedge.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
rights-of-way (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or R.O.W.) or bounded
by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary, semi-permanent or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of
persons or property.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a storm
sewer, designed to retain matter that would not easily pass through the storm
sewer.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original centerline, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; or
      (3)   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerline of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said
“parallel” streets intersect.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision planned and constructed so as to group
housing units into relatively dense patterns while providing a unified network
of open space and wooded areas, and meeting the requirements of the Subdivision
Code and the Zoning Code.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
   COMMON LAND. The land set aside for open space or recreational use for the
owners of the lots of a subdivision, which land is conveyed by the developer in
fee simple absolute title by warranty to trustees whose trust indenture shall
provide that said common land be used for the sole benefit, use and enjoyment
of the lot owners present and future. No lot owner shall have the right to
convey his or her interest in the COMMON LAND except as an incident of the
ownership of a regularly platted lot.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the City
Council to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the
city. The city’s COMPREHENSIVE PLAN may include, but is not limited to, plans
and programs regarding the location, character and extent of highways, bridges,
public buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential, commercial or
industrial land uses, parks, drainage facilities and the like.
   CROSS-SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way rather
than in the direction traffic moves on said right-of-way.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one outlet for vehicular
traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to said turn-around.
   CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of concrete as a single
facility.
   DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land or
improvement to the city or other appropriate government entity without
compensation.
   DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area, expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
   DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the net acreage.
See definition of AREA, NET.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and the arrangement of
easements, lots and rights-of-way, including specifications of materials,
alignment, grade and width of these elements.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
   DISTRICT ZONING. A portion of the territory of the city wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of the City’s Zoning Code.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which carries
storm water runoff or which is fed by street or building gutters or by storm
water sewers, or which serves the purpose of draining water from the lands
adjacent to such watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or a
person of the use of land for limited and specifically named purpose.
   ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision.
   FILING DATE. The date that the applicant has filed the last item of required
data or information with the City Clerk and has paid the necessary fees for
review by the Plan Commission.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  All land subject to periodic inundation from overflow of
natural waterways.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
   GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for SLOPE.
   HILLSIDE AREA. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas, storm water, telephone and cable television) to be
installed or agreed to be installed by the subdivider on land to be used for
public or private streets, and easements or other purposes as are necessary for
the general use of lot owners in the subdivision. Including the furnishing of
all materials, equipment, work and services such as engineering, staking and
supervision, necessary to construct all the improvements required in §§
154.060 through
154.075, or any other improvements that may be provided by the subdivider. All
of such materials, equipment and services shall be provided at the subdivided
cost and expense, although he or she may enter into a contract with individuals
and firms to complete such improvements, and the IMPROVEMENTS shall be subject
to the final approval of the Plan Commission and the City Council.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS.  The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for earth moving and for the structures and facilities to
be installed both in, or in conjunction with, a subdivision. Plans must include
drainage, streets, alleys and utility locations to be installed in or in
conjunction with a subdivision, also, include overall drainage plan and its
effect on contiguous land and source of effluent or discharge.
   INLET. A receptacle, located where surface and/or groundwater can run to by
gravity to be received, by the storm sewer.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   LAND USE PLAN. The comprehensive long-range plan for the desirable use of
land, the purpose of such plan being, among other things, to serve as a guide
to the zoning and progressive subdividing and use of undeveloped land.
   LOCAL STREET. A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic, and
for access to abutting property, and on which the speed limit is low and the
traffic volume minimal.
   LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate
or future) of development or transfer of ownership. A LOT may or may not
coincide with a “lot of record.”
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot, exclusive of any land designated for street right-of-way.
   LOT BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front end and the rear
lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut any street.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. On a corner
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from
the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A corner
side lot line separating a lot from a street is called a street side lot line.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior
side lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in accordance with state law.
   LOT THROUGH. A lot having a part of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH.  The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angle to
the general direction of the side lot lines.
   MAINTENANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by the
city, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed improvements for the
one-year period following their dedication.
   MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A combination of maps, drawings, site plans, charts
and supportive narrative material that portrays total development to be
achieved in the overall project area; which provides sufficient detailed
information to both illustrate and describe the intended character and
configuration of development to be accomplished.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A description of real property which is not described by
reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by starting at a
known point and description of the lines forming the boundaries of the property
or delineates a fractional portion of a section, lot or area by describing
lines or portions thereof.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A graphic statement of the existing and proposed capital
improvements planned by the city which require the acquisition of land, such as
streets, drainage systems, parks and the like.
   OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to
be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
these regulations.
   PARKING LANE. An auxiliary lane of a street and primarily used for vehicular
parking.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way dedicated to public use which cuts across a
block to facilitate safe pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond posted by the developer and approved by the
city, guaranteeing the installation of required improvements within, or in
conjunction with, a subdivision.
   PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
syndicate or trust.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the city.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A planned unit development is a
comprehensively planned development containing residential, commercial,
industrial or other land uses on an area of land under continuing unified
control. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may contain a single type of land use or
combination of land uses provided that such development is reviewed, evaluated
and approved by the city and satisfies the requirements contained herein.
   PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross-sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required in
this code and which plans shall conform to any requirements of the Plan
Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the approval officials of
the city for consideration, approval or disapproval.
   PLAT FINAL. The final engineering and architectural maps, drawings and
supporting material indicating the subdivided plan of the subdivision which, if
approved, may be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   PLAT PRELIMINARY. Preliminary engineering and architectural maps, drawings
and supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
   PROJECT AREA.  The territory intended to be subdivided or developed, and
portrayed and defined in the preliminary and final plats.
   RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the city or other appropriate government entity for public purposes.
   RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and adjacent
lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property deed as
land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
   RESUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   RETENTION AREA. An area of land designed to capture water runoff from a
developed parcel and release it at a specified rate of flow as determined by
engineering studies. See Section 5-16.4.
   REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or other appropriate government entity for streets,
alleys and other public improvements; sometimes abbreviated as R.O.W.
   ROADBED.  The graded portion of a street upon which the base course, surface
course, shoulders and median are constructed.
   ROADWAY.  The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs and gutter.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear lot
line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear
yard.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards of
this code, generally abutting or near the curb line of the street
   SLOPE. The degree of inclination of site or right-of-way expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for GRADE.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The County Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian or bicycle use only.
   STREET AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY.  Area service highways interconnect collectors
and land access streets with the principal system and vice versa, brings all
developed areas within a reasonable distance of principal streets, connects and
provides direct access to major traffic generators, provides secondary service
to smaller communities, may provide access to abutting property, and have a
medium volume design capacity and travel speeds.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short, land-access street, having only one end open
for vehicular traffic, and the other permanently terminated by a turn-around
for vehicles.
   STREET, DEAD-END. Land access streets similar to cul-de-sacs, except that
they provide no turn-around circle at their closed end, and are not permitted
in any proposed subdivision.
   STREET, LAND ACCESS. Land access streets provide access to abutting
properties, have a relatively short travel distance, and have a low volume
design capacity and travel speeds.
   STREET, LOOPED. Land access streets having two open ends, each end generally
connecting with the same street, no other streets intersecting between its
ends, and property fronts on both sides of the street.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS OR SERVICE ROAD. A land access street parallel and
adjacent to area service highways providing access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on or in the ground, or is attached to something having a
fixed location on or in the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES, but not all
STRUCTURES are buildings (e.g., a fence).
   STUB OR BUTT STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is
planned for future continuation.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate
or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide
land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision as defined in this section.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental or building development or
use(s) other than agricultural use or production.
      (2)   Establishment or dedication of a public street or alley through a
tract of land regardless of size. The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all
re-subdivisions of land or lots.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   TRAVELWAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision, and
to so note on the final plat recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the design
and improvement standards set forth in this code.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is set forth in the Zoning Code (
Chapter 155).
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
nearest rear main building and the rear lot lines. The depth of the required
REAR YARD shall be measured horizontally from the nearest part of the main
building toward the nearest point of the rear lot lines.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between a main building and the side lot line, extending
from the front yard or front lot lines, where no front yard is required, to the
rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be measured horizontally
from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the nearest part of the main
building.
   ZONING CODE. The Zoning Code of the city, codified herein as Chapter 155.
(1999 Code, § 34-2-2)
PLATS AND PLANS
§ 154.020 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   General procedure. Before preparing a proposed plat for an area, the
owner, developer or their representatives should have a pre-application meeting
with the Plan Commission and/or the City Planner to determine applicable
ordinance regulations and standards which must be complied with. After the pre-
application meeting(s), the subdivider should then prepare the preliminary
plat. As defined in the Subdivision Code, the preliminary plat must contain a
substantial amount of data, and will thus be incomplete and cannot be
considered as filed until all required data are submitted. The preliminary plat
is received with filing fees by the City Clerk’s office, who, in turn, will
forward the same to the Plan Commission for their review. Following its review
(as well as comments from other appropriate agencies when required), the Plan
Commission forwards its recommendations) to the City Council, who then either
approve, disapprove or approve with modifications the preliminary plat.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-1)
   (B)   Filing procedure.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
this municipality shall file six copies of the preliminary plat of said
subdivision with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and
supporting data with the appropriate Soil and Water Conservation District. Said
district shall have not more than 30 days to submit any comments it might wish
to make to the Administrator.
(70 ILCS 405/22.02A)
      (3)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a
portion of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, nonetheless,
a master development plan of the entire tract shall be submitted.
      (4)   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 and the provisions of the divisions below.
      (5)   Exception: the provision of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Minor subdivisions as defined at §
154.009; or
         (b)   Land that is specifically exempted from the Illinois Plats Act,
as now or hereafter amended, 765 ILCS 205/1(B).
   (C)   Information required. Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
state registered land surveyor at any scale from one inch equals 20 feet
through one inch equals 100 feet; provided the resultant drawing does not
exceed 36 inches square.
      (1)   Small key map showing the relation of the proposed subdivision to
section or U.S. survey lines and to platted subdivisions and dedicated roads
within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not the owner),
and registered professional engineer;
      (3)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (4)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided, and
of the adjacent land;
      (5)   North arrow, graphic scale and date of map;
      (6)   The gross and net acreage area of the proposed subdivision, the
acreage of streets and of any areas reserved for the common use of the property
owners within the subdivision and/or for public use;
      (7)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
      (8)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to known land lines;
      (9)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-foot
contour data for land having slopes of 0% to 4%, five-foot contour data for
land having slopes between 4% to 12%, and ten-foot contour data for land having
slopes of 12% or more;
      (10)   Any proposed alteration, adjustment or change in the elevation or
topography of any area;
      (11)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas,
natural drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools and the
like;
      (12)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision; showing the names and including street right-of-way and
paving widths; approximate gradients; types and widths of pavement, curbs,
sidewalks, crosswalks, planting strips and other pertinent data, including
classification of all existing or proposed streets as to function as collector,
major, minor or county road;
      (13)   A copy of the results of any tests made to ascertain subsurface
rock and soil conditions and the water table;
      (14)   Locations, widths and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
      (15)   A copy of the description of all proposed deed restrictions and
covenants;
      (16)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary and storm
sewers;
      (17)   Locations, types and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
      (18)   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions;
      (19)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds and other public purposes; and
      (20)   Locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision; and
      (21)   Information as defined in division (D)(3) below.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-4)
   (D)   Plan Commission action.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall either approve or disapprove the
application for preliminary plat approval within 60 days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the Plan Commission and the subdivider mutually
agree to extend this time limit. If the Plan Commission disapproves the
preliminary plat, it shall furnish to the applicant within the 60-day period a
written statement specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to
conform to this code and/or the official map.
      (2)   If the Plan Commission approved the preliminary plat, it shall
inform the City Council that action can be taken at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting.
      (3)   Notice of meeting: the Plan Commission shall give notice of its
consideration of any preliminary plat and allow the opportunity to be heard to
the following person(s) or groups during its preliminary review time span:
         (a)   Any person requesting notification of the meeting;
         (b)   Any property owner whose property is contiguous to the property,
including property across the streets, railroads, creeks and similar barriers;
said information shall be provided by the applicant to the City Clerk’s office
when filing the plat; and
         (c)   Any governmental or taxing body which requests notification of
the meeting.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-4)
   (E)   Review by City Council; time constraints.
      (1)   The City Council shall review the preliminary plat, along with the
Plan Commission recommendations and approve, disapprove or approve subject to
certain conditions and/or modifications said preliminary plat within 30 days
after its next regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the written
Plan Commission recommendations, unless variances from Zoning Code requirements
are needed, in which case, the City Council’s 30 days commence the day after
the Council of Appeals hearing is held, as required by the Zoning Code.
      (2)   If the City Council rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with this code and/
or the official map. The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the
Council’s resolution of approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. One
copy of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall
be filed with the Administrator, and one copy shall be sent to the subdivider
by return receipt mail.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-5)
   (F)   Rights and privileges of subdivider. Preliminary plat approval shall
confer the following rights and privileges upon the subdivider.
      (1)   The preliminary plat will remain in effect for a one-year period
from the day the City Council approves the same. The applicant may, during this
period, submit all or part or parts of said preliminary plat for final
approval. In the event that the subdivision is being developed in stages, the
applicant may, by written mutual agreement with the City Council, have final
approval of the last part of the plat delayed for a period not to exceed five
years from the date of the preliminary plat approval. Any part of a subdivision
which is being developed in stages shall contain a tract of land at least one
block in area or five gross acres.
      (2)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
approval was granted will not be changed for final approval.
      (3)   The applicant may also proceed with any detailed improvement plans
required for all facilities or utilities intended to be provided. Actual
construction of such facilities and improvements may commence prior to final
plat approval if the detailed improvement plans have been recommended by the
City Engineer and approved by the City Council, provided that such facilities
and improvements will be inspected throughout their construction, and final
plat approval will be contingent in part upon acceptable compliance to city
improvement and facilities standards. If the applicant does not submit the
improvement plans prior to the submission of the final plat, then he or she
shall submit the improvement plans to the City Clerk’s office at the time that
the final plat is submitted.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-6)
§ 154.021 IMPROVEMENT PLANS
   (A)   Submission of plans.
      (1)   After the City Council has approved the preliminary plat, but prior
to submission of the final plat, the developer shall furnish six copies of the
plans and specifications for all improvements to be installed within or in
conjunction with the proposed development to the City Clerk, pay all associated
filing fees before review by the City Engineer. These plans and specifications
shall be signed and sealed by the registered professional engineer responsible
for their preparation.
      (2)   Until the City Engineer certifies in writing that the proposed
improvements conform to generally accepted engineering practices and to the
standards in this code:
         (a)   The Administrator shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of said improvements; and
         (b)   The City Council shall not act upon the application for final
plat approval.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-8)
   (B)   Information required.
      (1)   Improvements plans shall consist of black or blue line prints not
larger than 36 inches square.
      (2)   These plans and the related specifications shall provide all of the
following information:
         (a)   Topography of the tract, both before and after development at
the same scale as the approved preliminary plat;
         (b)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerline of all
streets;
         (c)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
         (d)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements
including curbs/gutters, catch basins and inlets;
         (e)   Locations and typical cross-section of sidewalks and driveway
aprons;
         (f)   Locations, sizes and invert elevations of all existing and
proposed sanitary sewers, storm sewers and fire hydrants, showing connections
to any existing or proposed utility systems;
         (g)   Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric and other
utilities;
         (h)   Locations of street lighting standards and street signs;
         (i)   One or more benchmarks, when requested by Engineer, in or near
the subdivision, to which the subdivision is referenced; the identity and
elevation shall be based on sea level datum;
         (j)   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
         (k)   High water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within
the tract;
         (l)   Such other information as the City Engineer may reasonably
require to perform his or her duties under this section; and
         (m)   Existing and proposed survey monuments on street plans or on the
proposed final plat as required by this code.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-9)
   (C)   Inspections required. The subdivider/developer shall notify the
Administrator and the Building Commissioner of both the start and completion of
construction.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner shall inspect said improvements while
they are under construction. If he or she or his or her designated deputy
determines that they are being built in violation of this Code, he or she shall
request that the Administrator promptly issue a stop order.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner and City Engineer shall inspect
improvements upon their completion. This municipality shall not accept any
completed improvement until the Building Commissioner and Engineer have stated
in writing that it complies with this code.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-10)
   (D)   Filing “as-built” records.
      (1)   The subdivider/developer shall file with the Administrator a set of
reproducible cloth- or polyester-base film positive showing the as-built
details and any deviations from the approved plans upon the completion of
improvements, or when 50% of the building permits have been issued in a given
plat.
      (2)   The subdivider/developer shall pay the costs to add water, sewer,
street and stormwater improvements to the overall city map(s); street, sewer,
water, stormwater.
      (3)   If the Administrator finds the as-built to be unacceptable,
building permits shall be discontinued until such time as the information is
acceptable.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-11)
§ 154.022 ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Approval of final plat; improvements. The City Council shall not
approve any final plat of subdivision (and, hence, said final plat shall not be
entitled to recording) until:
      (1)   All improvements required in the improvements plan have been
completed by the subdivider/developer at his or her expense, inspected by the
Building Commissioner and Engineer, and dedicated to this municipality or other
appropriate entity; or
      (2)   In accordance with the divisions below, the subdivider/developer
has provided this municipality with legal assurance to guarantee the
satisfactory completion and dedication of all required improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-13)
   (B)   Forms of assurance. At the option of the City Council, the required
legal assurance may be either a performance bond or an escrow deposit. Every
performance bond shall be reviewed by the City Attorney, and posted with the
City Clerk. Any funds to be held in escrow shall be deposited with the City
Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-14)
   (C)   Amount of bond or deposit.
      (1)   The amount of the performance bond or escrow deposit shall be equal
to the City Engineer’s opinion of probable costs of constructing the
uncompleted portion of the required improvements plus all required inspection
fees.
      (2)   Any escrow deposit may be in the form of:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to this municipality the availability of the escrow
funds from time to time upon demand; or
         (c)   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills or other readily
negotiable instruments approved by the City Clerk, and made payable to this
municipality.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-15)
   (D)   Eligible sureties. No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless
he or she has been approved by the City Clerk. The Clerk shall conduct or cause
to be conducted spot audits of all sureties. Any surety who fails to perform
shall be ineligible for two years thereafter to act as surety for any
subdivision improvement within this municipality’s jurisdiction.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-16)
   (E)   Term of assurance; extension. The initial term of any performance bond
or escrow agreement shall not exceed two years. If all the required
improvements have not been completed by the end of the two-year period, the
Plan Commission, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may either
extend said bond/escrow agreement for one year only, or may proceed as per
division (G) below.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-17)
   (F)   Release of bond/escrow deposit.
      (1)   The City Clerk may release up to 90% of the amount of the
performance bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written authorization from the
Building Commissioner. The amount which the Building Commissioner authorizes to
be released shall be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in
accordance with approved plans.
      (2)   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit
shall not be released by the City Clerk until:
         (a)   The Building Commissioner has certified to the Administrator in
writing that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
         (b)   Said improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to this
city or other appropriate entity.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-18)
   (G)   Failure to complete improvements. If all the required improvements
have not been completed by the end of the two-year period (or three-year
period, in the case of an extension), the Administrator, with the assistance of
the City Attorney, may:
      (1)   Require the surety to perform on the bond, and to pay to this
municipality an equal amount to the cost of completing the required
improvements or the amount of the bond not theretofore released, whichever is
less;
      (2)   Order the City Clerk to retain all escrow funds needed to complete
the required improvements, and to return the balance (if any) of such funds to
the subdivider/developer; or
      (3)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-19)
§ 154.023 FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   City Council approval. The City Council shall not approve any final
plat unless they determine that it is in compliance with all pertinent
requirements of this code including those set forth in the divisions below.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-22)
   (B)   Filing; time limits.
      (1)   The subdivider of every subdivision, whether major or minor, but
excluding land specifically exempted from the Illinois Plats Act as now or
hereafter amended (765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.), who desires final plat approval
shall file six copies of the final plat and supporting data with the City Clerk
and pay all associated filing fees not later than one year after preliminary
plat approval has been granted; however, with the consent of the City Council,
the subdivider may delay application for final approval of part(s) of the tract
shown on the preliminary plat for successive one-year periods. No subdivision
plat or re-plat shall be filed for record or recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds, unless and until the approval of the city is endorsed
thereon. No lot shall be sold for such subdivision plat or re-plat until it has
been approved by the City Council and filed for record in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds as required by the state statutes.
      (2)   For official filings, the subdivider shall file the approved final
plat with the County Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the City Council
has approved the same and the Mayor has affixed his or her signature thereto.
One copy of the final plat shall be given to the City Clerk’s office by the
subdivider bearing the official stamp of the County Recorder attesting its
recording within 20 days of such action.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-23)
   (C)   Information required.
      (1)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor on new linen
tracing cloth- or polyester-base film with water-proof black ink at a scale not
greater than 100 feet equals one inch, provided that the resultant drawing
shall not exceed 36 inches square.
      (2)   The final plat and supporting data shall portray/provide all of the
following information:
         (a)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
         (b)   Name of subdivider, subdivision, identification of the portion
of the public lands survey in which the subdivision is located;
         (c)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of
the tract, and the included area of the subdivision to the nearest one-
hundredth of an acre;
         (d)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
         (e)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot;
         (f)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land within 300
feet, by record name, plat book and page number;
         (g)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the
boundaries of the subdivision;
         (h)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way,
easements and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings and curve
data, including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles;
         (i)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
         (j)   Purpose of any existing or proposed easement(s);
         (k)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
         (l)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are
reserved;
         (m)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
         (n)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land, and
become covenants in the deeds of lots;
         (o)   Certification of dedication of all public areas;
         (p)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established
official monument; reference corners shall be accurately described on the final
plat;
         (q)   Reference to known and permanent monuments and benchmarks from
which future surveys may be made together with elevations of any benchmarks;
and the surveyor must, at the time of making his or her survey, establish
permanent monuments (set in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost)
which mark the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided and
must designate upon the plat the locations where they may be found; and
         (r)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot
markers.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-24)
   (D)   Certificates required. As required by state law (765 ILCS 205/2; 65
ILCS 5/11-12-8), the following certificates shall be executed on the final
plat:
      (1)   Owner’s certificate.
   We, _________________________, the Owners of __________
(description)__________________, have caused the said tract to be surveyed and
subdivided in the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be hereinafter known
as _____________________________. All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon
are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever including the release and
waiver of the right of homestead under the Homestead Exemption laws of the
State of Illinois.
Dated this __________ day of _________________, 20____.
___________________(Seal)
___________________(Seal)
      (2)   Notary public’s certificate.
State of Illinois      )
               )   SS
County of         )
   I, ____________________, a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid, do
hereby certify that _________(owners)_________________________ are personally
known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing
instrument, and that they appeared before me this day in person and
acknowledged that they signed and sealed the same as their free and voluntary
act for the uses and purposes therein set forth, including the release of
waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this ___________ day of
____________________, 20_____.
___________________________________
Notary Public
      (3)   Surveyor’s certificate.
   I, _______________________, an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor, do hereby
certify that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my
direct supervision at the request of ____ for the purpose of subdividing the
tract into lots as shown.
__________________________________
Land Surveyor
__________________________________
Illinois Registration Number
______________
Date
      (4)   County Clerk’s certificate.
   I, _________________________, County Clerk of ________________ County,
Illinois, do hereby certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against
any of the real estate included within this plat.
_____________________________________
County Clerk
__________________
Date
      (5)   Certificate of City Council.
   I, ____________________________, Mayor of the City, do hereby certify that
the plat shown herein was duly presented to the City Council and approved at a
meeting of same held on _____(date)____.
_________________________________
Mayor
_________________________________
City Clerk
      (6)   Flood hazard certificate.
   We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that no part of this plat to be
recorded, is situated within 500 feet of any surface drain or watercourse
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more, or, if this plat is within 500
feet of any surface drain or watercourse, we hereby certify that this plat has
been reviewed by the Illinois Department of Transportation Division of Water
Resources and their report is on file with the County Recorder of Deeds.
By: ________________________________________
   Owner(s)
By: ________________________________________
   Illinois Land Surveyor
____________________________________________
Registration Number
__________________
Date
(1999 Code, § 34-3-25)
   (E)   Administrative review; advisory report. Within 30 days from the date
of application for final plat approval, the Building Commissioner and the
Administrator shall review said final plat (and supporting data), and shall
each advise the City Council in writing whether it substantially conforms to
the approved preliminary plat and improvement plans. A copy of their advisory
report shall be forwarded to the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission may
prepare an addendum to said report (should they so desire), and forward same to
the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-26)
   (F)   Action by City Council.
      (1)   The City Council shall either approve or disapprove the application
for final plat approval by resolution within 60 days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the Council and the subdivider mutually agree
to extend this time limit.
      (2)   The City Council shall not approve any final plat unless:
         (a)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat;
         (b)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design
and improvements standards of this code, the Zoning Code and the official map;
         (c)   To the Council’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies
with all pertinent requirements of state law; and
         (d)   Either of the following has been met:
            1.   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
accepted and dedicated; or
            2.   The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion and
dedication of all required improvements.
      (3)   If the City Council disapproves the final plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions
for approval.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Council’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the Administrator, and one copy shall be given to the subdivider.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-27)
   (G)   Changes in approved final plats. Once a final plat is approved by the
City Council, it shall not thereafter be modified; provided, however, that
minor changes may be made upon written application to the Administrator. Major
changes require the filing of a new final plat and complete re-review.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-28)
§ 154.024 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivider’s responsibilities. The subdivider/developer shall maintain
all the improvements in the subdivision until they have been accepted by and
dedicated to the city or other appropriate entity.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-35)
   (b)   Maintenance bond. Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall
post a maintenance bond with the City Clerk in the form approved by the City
Attorney. Said bond shall be in the amount determined by the Building
Commissioner to be sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the
required improvements for a period of two years from the date of their
acceptance and dedication. If at any time during the two-year period the
improvements are found to be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at the
subdivider/developer’s expense, if the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to
pay such costs within 90 days after demand is made upon him or her by the
Building Commissioner, the city shall use the maintenance bond to make the
necessary repairs/replacement. If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the
bond amount, the subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the
end of the two-year period, the maintenance bond shall be released.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-36)
§ 154.025 VACATION OF PLATS.
   In accordance with state law (765 ILCS 205/6, 205/7 and 205/8), any plat or
part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract, at any time before the
sale of any lot therein, by a written vacation instrument to which a copy of
the plat is attached. If there are public service facilities in any street,
other public way or easement shown on said plat, the instrument shall reserve
to the city or other public entity or public utility owning such facilities the
property, rights-of-way and easements necessary for continuing public service
by means of those facilities and for maintaining or reconstructing the same.
The vacation instrument shall be approved by the Council in the same manner as
plats of subdivision and shall also be approved by the County Superintendent of
Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate township, the District
Engineer of the State Department of Transportation, and the public utilities.
In the case of the platted tracts wherein any lots have been sold, the written
vacation instrument must also be signed by all the owners of lots in said
tracts.
(1999 Code, § 34-3-37)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 154.040 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer, referred to herein as the Administrator, is
hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this
code.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and forward preliminary plats to the Plan Commission (see
§
154.020);
      (2)   To transmit improvements plans to the City Engineer for his or her
review (see §
154.021);
      (3)   To review and forward final plats to the City Council (see §
154.023(B));
      (4)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the Building Commissioner or
City Engineer determines that approved improvements are being constructed in
violation of this code (see §
154.021(C));
      (5)   To pursue actions authorized at §
154.022(G) when a developer fails to complete required improvements;
      (6)   To evaluate and pass upon proposed changes in approved final plats
(see §
154.023(G));
      (7)   To review and forward applications for subdivision variances to the
Plan Commission (see §
154.041);
      (8)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this code
including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of completed
improvements (see §
154.021(D)), final plats, variances and amendments; and
      (9)   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this code.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-1)
§ 154.041 SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the requirements of this
code shall file a written application therefor with the Administrator at the
same time that he or she files his or her preliminary plat. The application
shall fully explain the grounds for the variance request, and specify the
section(s) of this code which, if strictly applied, would cause great practical
difficulties or hardship. The Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on
every variance application and submit it, together with the completed
application, to the Plan Commission.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-2)
§ 154.042 REVIEW BY PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Plan Commission shall review the variance application and the
Administrator’s comments, perform on-site review when appropriate, and submit
its advisory report to the City Council together with its recommendation on
preliminary plat approval (see §
154.020(B)). The Plan Commission’s advisory report shall be responsive to all
the variances standards set forth in §
154.043.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-3)
§ 154.043 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL; VARIANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   At the same meeting at which they take action on the application for
preliminary plat approval (see §
154.020(C)), the City Council shall decide by resolution whether to grant or
deny the requested subdivision variance.
   (B)   A copy of its decision, clearly stating their reasons therefor and the
exact terms of any variance granted, shall be attached to both the preliminary
and final plats.
   (C)   The City Council shall not grant any subdivision variance unless,
based upon the information presented to it, it determines that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this code (§
154.001);
      (2)   Strict application of the subdivision requirements (see §§
154.060 through
154.075) would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the subdivision
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances creating the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than a code amendment; and
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not materially frustrate
implementation of the municipal comprehensive plan including the official map.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-4)
§ 154.044 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to this code may be proposed by the Administrator, any
member of the City Council, any Plan Commission member or any party in
interest. Every amendment proposal shall be filed on a prescribed form in the
Administrator’s office.
   (B)   The Administrator shall promptly transmit each proposal, together with
any comments or recommendations he or she may wish to make, to the Plan
Commission for a public hearing.
      (1)   Public hearing, notice. The Plan Commission shall hold a public
hearing on every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after said
proposal is submitted to them. At the hearing any interested party may appear
and testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the nature of the
proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30, nor less than 15 days
before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within
this municipality.
      (2)   Advisory report; action by City Council. Within a reasonable time
after the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall submit an advisory report
to the City Council. The City Council shall act on the proposed amendment at
its next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of this report.
Without another public hearing, the City Council may either pass or reject the
proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Plan Commission for further
consideration.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-5)
§ 154.045 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The review for the preliminary plat shall be $50, plus $5 per lot.
   (B)   The final plat fee shall be $50 if no variation from the preliminary
plat, otherwise $50, plus $5 per lot whenever Plan Commission review is
required.
   (C)   Improvement plan review and inspection fee shall be 1% of the total
opinion of probable cost for all improvements as determined by the City
Engineer or by the total of all certified contracts for all work related to
improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-6)
§ 154.046 FEES; TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All fees listed in §
154.045 shall be paid by the subdivider/developer or the applicant to the City
Clerk’s office at the time of submission of documents.
(1999 Code, § 34-4-7)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.060 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Applicability of subchapter.
      (1)   No land within the subdivision and development jurisdiction of this
municipality shall be subdivided or developed except in compliance with the
regulations of this subchapter and the applicable provisions of state law. See
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8; 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
      (2)   No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
         (a)   The final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the City
Council and recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds; and
         (b)   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has
been improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, or until
a performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion
of such improvements.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue a building permit for any
lot conveyed in violation of this section.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-1)
   (B)   Suitability for development generally. Land that is unsuitable for
development due to flooding, poor drainage, rough topography, adverse soil
conditions or other features which will be harmful to the health, safety and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the development and/or its surrounding
areas shall not be subdivided or developed unless the subdivider/developer
formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the problems caused by the adverse
land conditions.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-2)
§ 154.061 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conformity with zoning. All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the
minimum lot area and dimensions requirements of the zoning district in which
said subdivision is located; land that is under water or reserved for street
improvements shall not be counted to satisfy these minimum requirements. Every
corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit compliance with the
district’s front setback requirements on every side of the lot that faces a
street. All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation
of unbuildable parcels. All lots shall contain adequate space for required off-
street parking and loading.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-4)
   (B)   Access and relationship to street. Land shall be subdivided in such a
way that each lot abuts a street meeting the requirements of §
154.062(A). All side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street
right-of-way lines or radial to curved street right-of-way lines except where a
deviation from this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-5)
   (C)   Reference monuments. Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments,
set in the ground in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost, shall
be placed in the field in accordance with the Plats Act, as now or hereafter
amended (765 ILCS 205/1). All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch iron
pins not less than 24 inches long. These pins shall be driven into the ground
deep enough that they do not protrude above the ground surface more than one-
half inch.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-6)
§ 154.062 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Plan integration. All streets shall be properly integrated with the
existing and proposed street system indicated in the municipal comprehensive
plan, and shall meet the specifications set forth in the table in Appendix A
below.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-7)
   (B)   Right-of-way and pavement widths.
      (1)   Every right-of-way established for subdivision purposes is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. All
rights-of-way shall be dedicated to the public by the developer.
      (2)   The minimum pavement widths shall be as noted in the table in
Appendix A below.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-8)
   (C)   Topographical considerations. Grades of street shall conform as
closely as possible to the natural topography, but shall not exceed the maximum
grade nor be less than the minimum grade indicated in the table of street
design specifications (in Appendix A below). All streets shall be arranged so
that as many as possible of the building sites are at or above street grade.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-9)
   (D)   Through traffic discouraged. Marginal access and local streets shall
be laid out so as to discourage use by through traffic. The rigid rectangular
gridiron street pattern shall be avoided, and the use of curvilinear streets,
cul-de-sacs or U-shaped streets shall be encouraged to effect a more desirable
street layout.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-10)
   (E)   Limited access to arterials. Where a development abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the Plan Commission may recommend to the
City Council that access to said arterial street be limited by one of the
following means:
      (1)   By subdividing lots so they back onto the arterial street and front
onto a parallel local street (double frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access-restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered
from and generally at right angles to the arterial street, with the rear lot
lines of the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the arterial
street; or
      (3)   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-11)
   (F)   Dead-end streets.
      (1)   Temporary stub streets. Streets shall be so arranged to provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
and police protection, and efficient provision of utilities, and where such
continuation comports with the city’s official map. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must dead-end temporarily, the right-of-way shall be
extended to the property line, and no strip that would prevent connections with
future streets shall be reserved. A temporary turnabout shall be provided at
the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
      (2)   Permanent dead-end streets. For greater convenience to traffic and
more effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be
limited to 500 feet in length. The terminus of a permanent dead-end street
shall not be closer than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-
de-sac turnaround, having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a
minimum pavement radius of 42 feet, shall be provided at the end of every
permanent dead-end street.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-12)
   (G)   Intersections.
      (1)   Only two streets. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any
one point.
      (2)   Right angles. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at
an angle of less than 75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching
an intersection and shall be approximately at right angles with said
intersection for at least 100 feet therefrom.
      (3)   Proper alignment. Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, whenever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at either
intersection. Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least 800 feet apart.
      (4)   Curb radii. To permit safe vehicular movements at corners, the
minimum curb radius at the intersection of two streets shall be 20 feet, and
the minimum radius at the back of the curb shall be 32 feet.
      (5)   Flat grade. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade
wherever practical. In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than a 3%
slope for a distance of 50 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street shall be provided at the approach to an intersection.
      (6)   Maximum cross-slope. The cross-slopes on all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
      (7)   Adequate sight-lines. Where any street intersection will involve
earth banks or existing vegetation on the triangular area shown in Figure 1 in
Appendix A below, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-13)
   (H)   Reverse curves. A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced
between reverse curves on local collector and collector streets (see Figure 2
in
Appendix A below).
(1999 Code, § 34-5-14)
   (I)   Improvements to existing streets. Whenever any development abuts an
existing street that is narrower than the standards indicated in the table of
street design specifications (in Appendix A below), the subdivider shall
dedicate sufficient right-of-way on the side abutting the development to permit
compliance with those standards. The developer shall improve said street to the
standards imposed at §§
154.063(B) and (C), and pay one-half the cost of said improvements.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-15)
   (J)   When excess right-of-way required. Right-of-way width in excess of the
standards set forth in the table of street design specifications in
Appendix A below, shall be required where:
      (1)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
adequate earth slopes; or
      (2)   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed
to construct overpasses, underpasses and approaches thereto.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-16)
§ 154.063 STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Developer’s expense. All streets and alleys shall be improved solely
at the expense of the developer in accordance with the requirements set forth
herein. All streets shall be graded as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Generally. All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use
within a subdivision shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with
the minimum requirements herein below set forth and in a manner which will
provide complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys and public
grounds which may be necessary in order to provide adequate and satisfactory
drainage along the side of any existing public street which lies adjacent to
the subdivision. In general, all such new streets within the subdivision and
all work to be undertaken thereon shall be designed and constructed according
to IDOT Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications as the same are in effect at
the time the preliminary plat and plans for such improvement work are submitted
for approval.
      (2)   Grading roadway and side slopes. The roadway shall be considered to
be that part of the improvement which lies between the right-of-way lines.
      (3)   Street construction standards. All streets within the
jurisdictional authority of the municipality other than state highways shall be
improved with pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutter, in
accordance with the following criteria.
         (a)   Collector street pavements shall be provided with a bituminous
surface of one and one-half inches of bituminous concrete binder and one and
one-half inches of bituminous concrete surface Class 1 placed upon a crush
stone base course of CA #6 having a minimum thickness of six inches compacted.
The center 40 feet of the base course shall have a crown of three inches.
         (b)   Local street pavements shall be provided with a CA #6 crushed
stone base course, having a minimum thickness of seven inches compacted. An A-
2 surface treatment shall be applied in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction of the State of Illinois,
Department of Transportation.
         (c)   The crushed stone base course shall be permitted to remain
throughout one winter season before the bituminous surface is placed thereon.
Following inspection of the base and subbase as to compaction and thickness of
the base by the administrative officer, he or she may, by authority in writing
to the subdivider, waive the winter season waiting period. Compaction based on
percent of optimum density.
         (d)   The subdivider shall be required to improve arterial streets
only to the width required by the current and immediate needs of his or her
subdivision consistent to the standards and specifications herein contained.
      (4)   Alleys. Alleys, where permitted or required, shall be constructed
as specified for local streets.
      (5)   Utility lines. Underground utilities in streets or rights-of-way or
in easements shall be installed prior to the construction of such streets and/
or alleys. Wherever possible, utilities will be placed in rear lot easements
with street placement permitted in only the most unusual circumstances.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-20)
   (B)   Curb and gutter. All streets, except alleys and collector commercial,
local commercial, arterial or industrial, shall be constructed with Portland
cement concrete vertical curb and gutter and/or V-type gutter in accordance
with the dimensions and specifications shown, therefor, in Appendix A. Only
vertical curb and gutter shall be constructed in industrial streets. The
materials and construction methods for curb and/or gutter shall conform with
IDOT Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-21)
   (C)   Maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   Subsequent to completion of street construction by the subdivider,
the City Engineer shall make a final inspection of all streets to ascertain the
acceptability of structural condition, earth slopes, drainage structures and
the like. If said inspection indicates no deficient items, the city shall take
formal action to accept the completed streets for maintenance based upon the
Engineer’s recommendation.
      (2)   Should any item need correction or repair, the subdivider will be
notified in writing of each deficiency. No street(s) will be accepted in a
subdivision until all streets comply with the city’s requirements to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer. In addition, the developer will be required
to provide a guarantee in the form of a surety bond in the amount of $10,000
for a period of two years.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-22)
§ 154.064 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block width. Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two
tiers of lots having the minimum depth required by the zoning district
regulations; provided, that this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent
to local collector or collector streets, railroads or watercourses.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-25)
   (B)   Block length. No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor shorter
than 500 feet. Wherever practicable, blocks along collector streets shall not
be less than 1,000 feet in length.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-26)
   (C)   Crosswalks. Crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required
through the center of blocks more than 1,000 feet long where necessary to
provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation or other community facilities.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-27)
§ 154.065 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required:
         (a)   On the recommendation of the Plan Commission that, sidewalks are
needed to ensure public safety;
         (b)   Along collector streets, near schools and in shopping areas and
similar public places.
      (2)   These requirements shall not be waived unless the Plan Commission
advises the City Council that, in the area in question, sidewalks are not
needed to ensure public safety, and/or that topographical conditions make the
installation of sidewalks impractical.
      (3)   All sidewalks constructed within the municipality shall meet IDOT
Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-29)
   (B)   Sidewalk construction standards.
      (1)   Relationship to curb. The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall
either abut the curb or be located at least six feet from the curb to allow
sufficient space for tree planting.
      (2)   Width. Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide.
Nonresidential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   Thickness of concrete. All sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete at least four inches thick, except that across driveways the thickness
shall be increased to six inches and/or number six reinforcing mesh shall be
used.
      (4)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 6%.
      (5)   Ramps at intersections. When sidewalks are required curbs shall be
cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all intersections so as to enhance the
mobility of handicapped individuals.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-30)
§ 154.066 STREET LIGHTS.
   (A)   Intersection lighting. Street lights shall be provided at each
intersection of streets (or alleys) within a subdivision and at each cul-de-
sac, but in no event shall there be less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or
portion thereof) of street frontage between intersections, or between a street
intersection and the terminus of a dead-end street. Additionally, in multi-
family dwelling subdivisions, lighting shall be provided within parking areas
at a minimum rate of one light per 25 parking spaces or any fraction thereof.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-32)
   (B)   Streetlight system standards.
      (1)   The design and installation of the streetlight system in every
subdivision shall be reviewed by the Building Commissioner and the appropriate
electric utility company.
      (2)   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be equivalent, at
a minimum, to a 175 watt lamp or 6800 mercury luminary lamp. Each streetlight
standard (post) shall be at least 16 feet high.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-33)
§ 154.067 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs of the size, height and type approved by Building
Commissioner shall be supplied and placed by the developer at all intersections
within or abutting any subdivision. Street names shall be sufficiently
different in sound and spelling from other street names in this municipality so
as to avoid confusion. The City Clerk shall maintain a list of existing street
names for reference. A street which is planned as a continuation of an existing
street shall bear the same name.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-35)
§ 154.068 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Utility location and easements required. At locations within the
subdivision where utilities and drainage facilities are not to be constructed
within public rights-of-way, the subdivider shall make provision for easements
for such installations. Preliminary plats shall be submitted to the electric,
gas and telephone companies for their input regarding utility easements.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-37)
   (B)   Utility easements. Utility easements, not less than 20 feet wide for
sanitary sewers and water mains and not less than 15 feet wide for gas,
electric, telephone and cable television, shall be provided where necessary.
Normally, in the case of abutting lots, an equal amount should be taken from
each lot. Property owners may (at their own risk) plant shrubbery or hedges or
install fences on the easement areas. Utilities (private and public), however,
in order to have access for repair shall have the election to destroy said
improvements and restore the area only by grading and seeding, or to have
alternate access through the owner’s property.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-38)
   (C)   Drainage easements. Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall
be established along any natural drainage channel and in such other locations
as may be necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from
streets, alleys and all other portions of the subdivision. The location and
minimum widths of such easements shall be approved by the City Engineer.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-39)
   (D)   Maintenance easements. Maintenance easements of not less than five
feet in width shall be provided along all rear and side lot lines.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-40)
§ 154.069 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Potable water required. An adequate supply of potable water shall be
provided to every platted lot in accordance with State Department of Public
Health regulations. If the public water system is reasonably accessible, each
lot shall be properly connected thereto at the property line. All water
distribution lines shall be at least six inches in diameter.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-42)
   (B)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants of the type approved by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the
water distribution system. The distance from any lot to a hydrant, measured
along the centerline of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater than 400
feet.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-43)
§ 154.070 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Compliance with regulations. All proposed sanitary sewer facilities
shall comply with the regulations of the State Department of Public Health and
the State Environmental Protection Agency, and shall be approved by the City
Council. All water and sewer lines shall be constructed as per Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewers Mains, State of Illinois, 4th Edition, or
as amended.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-45)
   (B)   When public system planned. In areas where the public sanitary
sewerage system is not reasonably accessible but where plans for the
installation of said system have been approved by the State Environmental
Protection Agency, sanitary sewers shall be provided in accordance with such
plans and temporarily capped. To serve the subdivision until the time when
connection to the public system becomes practicable, an approved private
central sewage disposal system shall be installed, or individual sewage
disposal systems may be used.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-46)
   (C)   Alternate methods of disposal. In the event it is not possible, or
feasible, for the subdivider to extend the public sewer system into the
proposed subdivision, for whatever reason, the subdivider has the right to
petition the city to install an alternative method of sewage disposal. Any such
petition shall be considered on an individual basis with each case standing on
its own merit. No subdivision shall be approved without the city’s approval of
the method of sewage disposal.
      (1)   Private central sewage systems. Upon specific approval of the City
Council, the subdivider may install a private central sewage system. The city
shall reserve the right to review and approve/reject the detailed plans for
such a system. Approval of the plans by the city shall in no way be construed
as acceptance of the design or operation or maintenance responsibility for said
installation. Such installation shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
and the State Department of Public Health. The subdivider shall assume
perpetual operational and maintenance responsibilities for such installation
unless arrangements to the contrary are provided for in a formal written
agreement between home owners and the subdivider. Failure of the subdivider to
discharge his or her operational/maintenance responsibilities may result in a
fine of $500 per day for each day a deficiency exists and shall apply to the
subdivider, his or her heirs, successors or assigns.
      (2)   Individual disposal systems. Upon written approval of the City
Council, the subdivider may install individual sewage disposal systems
providing the lot size is in excess of 20,000 square feet. If such
installations are permitted, they shall be designed and installed in accordance
with the applicable provisions of the requirements and regulations of the
“Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code” of the State Department of
Public Health.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-47)
§ 154.071 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to protect and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare. The criteria for storm water detention will
reduce the possibility of damage to public and private property, will reduce
the erosion on land and creek channels, will assist in the attainment and
maintenance of water quality standards, and will preserve and enhance the
environmental quality of the watercourses in the city. This criteria provides
uniform procedures for designing and checking the design of storm drainage
detention systems.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall not recommend the approval of any plat
unless, after consultation with the City Engineer, it determines that the
proposed provisions for storm water drainage are adequate. Drainage
improvements in the subdivision shall be coordinated with existing and planned
drainage improvements elsewhere so as to form an integrated municipal system.
The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-49)
   (B)   Special definitions.
      (1)   Development. Any activity, including subdivisions, that alters the
surface of the land to create additional impervious surfaces including, but not
limited to, pavement, buildings and structures, except:
         (a)   Additions to, improvements and repair of existing single-family
and duplex dwellings;
         (b)   Construction of any buildings, structures and/or appurtenant
service roads, drives and walks on a site having previously provided storm
water control as part of a larger unit of development consistent with the
original development plan;
         (c)   Remodeling, repair, replacement and improvements to any existing
structure or facility and appurtenances that does not increase the impervious
area on the site in excess of 10% or add one acre of impervious area; and
         (d)   Construction of any one new single-family or duplex dwelling
unit, irrespective of the site area on which the same may be situated.
      (2)   Emergency spillway. A device or devices used to discharge water
under conditions of inflow that exceed the design inflow. The emergency
spillway functions primarily to prevent damage to the detention facility that
would permit the sudden release of impounded water. It shall be designed to
handle the runoff from a 100-year storm.
      (3)   Freeboard. The difference in elevation between the top of a
structure such as a dam or open channel and the maximum design water surface
elevation or high water mark and is an allowance against overtopping by waves
or other transient disturbances.
      (4)   Principal spillway. A device such as an inlet, pipe, weir and the
like, to discharge water during operation of the facility under the conditions
of a 15-year or less return frequency of the existing conditions, before the
proposed development.
      (5)   Private detention facility. Any detention facility located on and
controlling discharge from a site wholly owned and controlled by one owner and
not platted for future subdivision of ownership. Also, all facilities
incorporating detention storage of storm water in or on any of the following:
         (a)   Roofs of buildings or structures also used for other purposes;
         (b)   Paved or surfaced areas also used for other purposes; or
         (c)   Enclosed underground pipes or structures on private property
when the surface is used for other purposes.
      (6)   Public detention facility. Any detention facility controlling
discharge from a tributary area owned by more than one owner and/or platted for
future subdivision of ownership, except as defined as a private detention
facility herein.
      (7)   Rational method. An empirical formula for calculating peak rates of
runoff resulting from rainfall.
      (8)   Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Manual, March 1982 (IPSUSESCM).
      (9)   Tributary area. All land draining to the point of consideration,
regardless of ownership.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-50)
§ 154.072 GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Applicability. This code shall apply to all development within the
limits of the city. Residential developments having a total area of less than
five acres, and commercial or industrial developments having a total area of
less than two acres, may be given a waiver by the city in accordance with §
154.043, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The city retains the right to require detention storage in all
cases in which the proposed development will generate excess runoff that
adversely affects the carrying capacity of the receiving watercourse.
      (2)   Developments less than two acres with less than 30% of the area
paved and developments generating less than one cubic foot per second (CFS)/
acre increased runoff shall not be required to provide detention storage,
unless conditions in division (A)(1) above is applicable.
      (3)   This code shall apply for all newly platted areas and new
developments proposed after the date of passage of this code. All development
that have an approved preliminary plan by the Plan Commission at the time of
the approval of this code will not have to conform to this code.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-52)
   (B)   Affidavit of disclosure of property interest. The effective acreage
for a site is not limited to a fractional part of the total. If a project is
developed in phases or small plats, the total acreage of the project site must
be considered. At the time the owner of any development submits a preliminary
plat or preliminary plan, he or she shall also identify to the city all
contiguous property or property in the watershed that he or she has interest
in.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-53)
   (C)   Method of evaluation. The storage capacity and discharge rate shall be
based upon the calculated volume and peak flow of the storm water runoff,
respectively. The calculations for sites having an area of 100 acres or less
shall be made using either the Illinois Manual for Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Method or the Rational Method. If the site is larger than
100 acres, then the Engineer shall use the Illinois Manual for Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Method or if another method is desired to be used, the
Engineer shall submit a proposed method of evaluation for the calculations for
review and approval. The permitted discharge rate of storm water runoff shall
be determined by calculating the rate of runoff for the site’s pre- and post-
development conditions. The Engineer shall determine the most critical storm
looking at three different time periods: the time of concentration; a one-hour
storm; and a 24-hour storm.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-54)
   (D)   Detention of differential runoff. All new developments shall provide a
storm water system that ensures that the rate of flow of storm water runoff
discharged from the site after development does not exceed the rate of flow of
storm water runoff discharged from the site before development of a 25-year
storm, unless given a waiver by the city in accordance with §
154.043. Data shall be submitted for the 15-, 25- and 100-year frequency storm.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-55)
   (E)   Flows from upstream areas. Flows from upstream areas outside the site
should be based upon the assumption that those areas are fully developed under
forecast land use patterns. The required storage volume will be based upon the
site only, with flows from upstream areas being by-passed or discharged via
overflow spillways or other devices for the 100-year storm.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-56)
   (F)   Facilities in floodplains. If detention storage is provided within a
floodplain, only the net increase in storage volume above that which naturally
existed on the floodplain shall be credited to the development. No credit will
be granted for volumes below the elevation of the base flood at that location
unless compensatory storage is also provided. Where encroachments in the
existing floodplain fill the valley storage areas, an equal amount of detention
volume shall be provided.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-57)
   (G)   Land credit for detention facilities. The number of units/lots shall
be based on the total area of the tract to be developed. All areas to be used
as detention facilities shall be included in this total area.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-58)
§ 154.073 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   General requirements. The design shall be accomplished under the
direction of a registered professional engineer. The design shall also be based
on land use in the tributary area as zoned, actually developed, or indicated by
an adopted future land use plan, whichever basis produces the greatest runoff.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-60)
   (B)   Other references. Other agencies have criteria and regulations
pertaining to drainage systems which may complement this criteria. When
conflicts are encountered the most rigorous criteria shall govern.
      (1)   Federal Insurance Agency; floodplain regulations and implementing
ordinances adopted by municipalities. Drainage systems designed within the
limits of the designated 100-year floodplain on the principal stream shall be
designed to convey the flood as defined by applicable published floodplain
information studies. For areas located in FIA Zone A outside the detailed study
area, the developer shall prepare studies and calculations establishing the
floodplain, elevation and width. These calculations shall be submitted to the
reviewing agency for approval.
      (2)   State Department of Water Resources. Rules and Regulations of Dams
and Reservoirs shall apply to those structures classified as dams thereunder.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-61)
   (C)   Storm water runoff. The design criteria used in determining the amount
of runoff shall be the same as set out in §
154.071(A).
(1999 Code, § 34-5-62)
   (D)   Hydraulic considerations for detention storage.
      (1)   Principal spillways. Shall be designed to meet the following
requirements.
         (a)   The principal spillway shall be designed to function without
requiring attendance or operation of any kind or requiring use of equipment or
tools.
         (b)   All discharge from the detention facility when inflow is equal
to or less than the 100-year inflow shall be via the principal spillway(s).
         (c)   The design shall allow for discharge of at least 80% of the
detention storage volume within 24 hours after the peak or center of mass of
the inflow has entered the detention basin. On basins less than 100 acres, this
shall not apply.
         (d)   The design discharge rate via the spillway shall continuously
increase with increasing head and shall have hydraulic characteristics similar
to weirs, orifices or pipes.
      (2)   Emergency spillways. The emergency spillway shall be provided to
pass a 100-year storm without damaging any property and, where applicable,
designed to State Department of Water Resources Dam Safety Requirements.
      (3)   Outlet works. Shall have an outlet works consisting of valves,
gates, pipes and other devices as necessary to completely drain the facility in
72 hours or less when required for maintenance or inspection on normally wet
basins.
      (4)   Sediment storage. Shall be designed to provide for five years of
sediment accumulation calculated by using Figure 1 in
Appendix A below.
         (a)   All other detention facilities shall provide storage for two
years of sediment accumulation by using Figure 1 in
Appendix A below, except for those using roofs of buildings, paved parking
areas or other facilities designed to preclude the deposition or accumulation
of sediment.
         (b)   Sediment storage volume shall be in addition to the volume
required for temporary storage of storm water to properly size the detention
facility on normally wet basins.
      (5)   Erosion control. Principal spillways and outlet works shall be
designed to prevent erosion, and if necessary, equipped with energy dissipating
devices to slow the water to normal velocity as called out in the IPSUSESC
Manual. Special measures shall be taken by the developer to not permit sediment
from filling the proposed detention basin during all construction of the
proposed development.
      (6)   Public detention facilities. The owner shall dedicate the detention
facility and easements as set forth upon completion of the one-year warranty
period and approval by the City Engineer, except:
         (a)   When multipurpose wet facilities are planned or are suitable for
use for private aquatic recreation or for aesthetic enhancement of the owner’s
property; and
         (b)   When multipurpose dry facilities incorporate surface
recreational improvements.
      (7)   Private detention facilities. Shall be designed requiring the same
criteria as the public detention facilities.
      (8)   Other.
         (a)   The amount of easement shall be equal to the land occupied by
the facility, plus a 20-foot wide strip around the perimeter of the highest
elevation attained by the design storage volume, plus an excess easement 20
feet in width between the facility and public street. This easement shall be
shown as common ground or be dedicated to the trustees of the subdivision or
owner of the property for the purpose of maintenance of the storm water
detention facility.
         (b)   A plan for perpetual maintenance and designating responsibility
for the maintenance shall be provided for its continuing performance to the
standards established by this criteria.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-63)
§ 154.074 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plan requirements. The plan requirements shall be:
      (1)   Elevation area capacity curves for the storage facility including
notation of the storage volumes allocated to runoff, and permanent residual
water storage for other uses (wet basins only);
      (2)   Inflow hydrographs (detention volumes for rational method) for the
15-, 25-, and 100-year recurrence interval design storms;
      (3)   Stage-discharge rating curves for each spillway and for combined
spillway discharges; and
      (4)   Routing curves for the 15-year and all greater criteria recurrence
interval design storms with time plotted as the abscissa and the following
plotted as ordinates (this item is not required for the rational method):
         (a)   Cumulative inflow volume;
         (b)   Cumulative discharge; and
         (c)   Stage elevation.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-65)
   (B)   Construction alternatives.
      (1)   A developer shall build, as part of his or her development, a
detention basin as required by this code, unless the following sections apply.
      (2)   Developers of adjacent tracts may combine to build one detention
site large enough to meet the requirements of all the tracts of land with
approval of the city. The basin shall be located in the same drainage basin.
      (3)   On-site detention will be required whenever increased runoff from
the proposed development creates a hazard down stream as determined by the City
Engineer.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-66)
§ 154.075 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND ACCEPTANCE BY CITY.
   (A)   Inspection. The developer shall inspect or cause to be inspected, all
storm water detention systems constructed within the city. Through such
inspection reports the City Engineer shall ensure that the facilities under
construction are being constructed in accordance with the approved plans for
such development.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-68)
   (B)   Maintenance. Each owner of the property being developed has the
responsibility and duty to properly operate and maintain any storm water
management system which has not been accepted for maintenance by the city. The
responsibility of maintenance of the system and subdivision projects shall
remain with the developer until such time as the storm water management system
escrow for such development has been released at the end of the one-year
warranty period. Upon release of escrow, the maintenance responsibility shall
be vested in the trustees of the subdivision by virtue of a trust indenture.
Indenture of trusts shall clearly indicate resident responsibility for
maintenance. All such privately owned maintained systems shall be subject to
periodic inspections by the City Engineer or its representative. After an
inspection by the City Engineer, he or she determines whether or not the
conditions of the privately owned storm water detention system are safe and
correct. Any cost incurred by the city, as a result of the City Engineer’s
actions, shall be attest against the owner(s) of the system.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-69)
   (C)   Acceptance. Upon acceptance by the City Council, the storm water
detention system may be dedicated to the city for perpetual maintenance. Any
such system shall include adequate perpetual access and sufficient area for
maintenance by the city personnel and vehicles.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-70)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Violation of the provisions of this code or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, including conditions and safeguards established
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-72)
   (B)   Corrective actions. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to forbid or remedy any
violations. All such costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or
persons responsible.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-73)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates this code shall be subject to the
penalty in §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 34-5-74)
APPENDIX A: FIGURES
 
Street Design Specifications
               Max. No.
Residential    of        Permitted  Required    Min.       Max.      Min.
Street         Dwelling  On-Street  R.O.W. (ft) Pavement   Gradient  Gradient
Classification Units/Net Parking                Width (ft) (%)       (%)
               Acre
Marginal       To 1.99   None       40          20         6         1.3
access
Local          2.0 to    Both sides 45          30         6         1.0
               4.50
Collector      4.50/     Both sides 50          34         6         1.0
               greater
               Over 250
Arterial       dwelling  None       70          28         6         1.0
               units
               served
 
 
Street Design Specifications
Commercial and Permitted
Industrial     On-Street  Required    Min. Pavement Max. Gradient Min. Gradient
Street         Parking    R.O.W. (ft) Width (ft)    (%)           (%)
Classification
Local          None       60          26            10            1.0
Local          One side   60          34            10            1.0
Local          Both sides 60          42            10            1.0
Collector      None       80          44            8             1.0
 
(1999 Code, 34-5-Table 5A)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose
   
155.002   Definitions
Districts and Map
   
155.015   Zoning districts
   
155.016   Boundaries
   
155.017   District dividing lot
   
155.018   Boundary line decided by Board of Appeals
   
155.019   Annexation
General Provisions
   
155.030   Zoning affects every structure and use
   
155.031   Continuing existing uses
   
155.032   Nonconforming uses
   
155.033   Street frontage required; rear dwellings
   
155.034   Number of buildings on a lot
   
155.035   Accessory buildings in residence districts
   
155.036   Required yard cannot be reduced or used by another building
   
155.037   When courts are required
   
155.038   Conversion of dwellings
   
155.039   Transitional uses in R Districts
   
155.040   Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
155.041   Essential services
   
155.042   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.043   Pending applications for building permits
A-1 Agricultural District
   
155.055   Permitted principal uses
   
155.056   Special uses
   
155.057   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.058   Height regulations
   
155.059   Lot area, frontage, yard and floor area requirements
R-1 One-Family Residence Districts
   
155.070   Permitted principal uses
   
155.071   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.072   Height regulations
   
155.073   Lot area, frontage, yard and floor area requirements
R-1A One-Family Residence Districts
   
155.085   Permitted principal uses
   
155.086   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.087   Height regulations
   
155.088   Lot area, frontage, yard and floor area requirements
R-2 One- and Two-Family Residence Districts
   
155.100   Permitted uses
   
155.101   Special uses
   
155.102   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.103   Height regulations
   
155.104   Lot area, frontage, lot coverage yard and floor area requirements
R-3 Multi-Family Residence Districts
   
155.115   Permitted uses
   
155.116   Special uses
   
155.117   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.118   Height regulations
   
155.119   Lot area, frontage, lot coverage and floor area requirements
B-1 Secondary Business Districts
   
155.130   Permitted uses
   
155.131   Accessory uses
   
155.132   Height regulations
   
155.133   Lot area, frontage and lot coverage requirements
B-2 Primary Business District
   
155.145   Permitted uses
   
155.146   Special uses
   
155.147   Accessory uses
   
155.148   Prohibited uses
   
155.149   Height regulations
   
155.150   Yard requirements
M-1 Light Industrial Districts
   
155.165   Permitted uses
   
155.166   Accessory uses
   
155.167   Special uses
   
155.168   Prohibited uses
   
155.169   Yard requirements
M-2 General Industrial Districts
   
155.180   Permitted uses
   
155.181   Accessory uses
   
155.182   Special uses
   
155.183   Prohibited uses
   
155.184   Yard requirements
F-1 Floodplain Districts
   
155.195   Permitted principal uses
   
155.196   Uses; when authorized
   
155.197   Accessory uses
   
155.198   Required conditions
   
155.199   Height regulations
   
155.200   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
Special Provisions
   
155.215   Parking and loading spaces
   
155.216   Garages and service stations
   
155.217   Dwelling groups
   
155.218   Residence development projects
   
155.219   Motels
   
155.220   Mobile home requirements
Special Requirements, Exceptions and Modifications
   
155.235   Additional restrictions
   
155.236   Height limits
   
155.237   Lot area requirements
   
155.238   Lot area per family; corner lots
   
155.239   Front yard exceptions and modifications
   
155.240   Side yard exceptions and modifications
   
155.241   Rear yard exceptions and modifications
Enforcement
   
155.255   Generally
   
155.256   Administrator’s duties
   
155.257   Application and plans
   
155.258   Staking property lines
   
155.259   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.260   Legal action against violator
Board of Appeals
   
155.275   Established
   
155.276   Applications and appeals
   
155.277   Powers of the Board
   
155.278   Action of the Board
   
155.279   Judicial review
Amendments
   
155.290   Amendments
   
155.291   Vote required by City Council
   
155.292   Amendments by property owner
   
155.293   Failure to notify
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this code state recommended minimum requirements, to be
adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort,
prosperity and general welfare. Where this code places greater restrictions
upon the use of buildings or other structures, or larger yards or other open
spaces than are imposed or required by other provisions of law or ordinance,
the provisions of this code shall prevail, and this code shall be hereinafter
referred to as “code” or “the code” or the “Zoning Code”.
(1999 Code, § 40-1-1) (Ord. 334, passed - -; Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future, words in the singular number
include the plural, and words in the plural number include the singular.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal
use or building on the same lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental
thereto.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, swore to and attested by an individual who
has the authority to administer such an oath.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes. This includes
necessary building and structures which shall be used for agriculture
including, but not limited to, farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry and
the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal agriculture activities. Building occupied as
residences shall not be considered to be used for AGRICULTURAL purposes.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use for the
landing and taking off of aircraft; and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport building or other airport facilities or rights-of-
way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon.
   ALLEY. A public or private way less than 21 feet in width affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof, designated or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a building or special use
permit under the terms of this chapter.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle
steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor service to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding one and one-half tons capacity, but not
including any operation specified under “Automobile Repairs, Major”.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any area of land where two or more motor vehicles,
not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and not
being restored to operation; or any land, building or structure used for the
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles, or parts thereof, not in running
condition.
   BASEMENT. A story having part, but not more than 50% of its height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground (as distinguished from a “cellar”). A
BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for purpose of height measurement.
   BILLBOARD or SIGNBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof, situated on
private premises, on which lettered, figured or pictorial matter is, or
intended to be, displayed for advertising purposes, other than the name and
occupation of the user of, or the nature of, the business conducted on such
premises, or the products primarily sold or manufactured thereon. This
definition shall not be held to include a real estate sign advertising for sale
or rent the property upon which it stands.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
chattels.
   CELLAR. A story having 50% or more of its height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied and unobstructed space other than a yard on the
same lot with a building.
   COURT, INNER. Any court other than an outer court.
   COURT, OUTER. A court open for its full width on a street or other permanent
open space; its width being the horizontal dimension substantially parallel to
the principal open end thereof, and its depth the horizontal distance between
the principal open end and the end opposite thereto.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a toilet, and a
bath or shower facility.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which accommodates patron’s
automobiles, from which the occupants may purchase or watch.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof occupied or intended to be occupied
exclusively for residence purposes, but not including a tent, cabin, trailer or
trailer coach, or a room in a hotel or motel.
   DWELLING GROUP. Two or more detached dwellings located on a parcel of land
in one ownership and conforming to the special conditions and requirements set
forth in §
155.217.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance,
by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, or underground
or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, elevated and
underground water storage tanks, including pipes, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith;
reasonable necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public
utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health
or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, together
with his, her or their domestic servants, maintaining a common household in a
dwelling.
   FLOODPLAIN. Lands in the community, or as may be annexed, or within one and
one-half miles of the corporate limits which are low-lying difficult to drain
or subject to flood.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a principal
building used for the storage of self-propelled passenger vehicles or trailers
of the occupants of the premises and/or not more than one truck of a rated
capacity not exceeding one and one-half tons.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building where automotive vehicles are painted, rebuilt,
reconstructed and/or stored for compensation.
   HEIGHT. In the case of a wall, or part of a building, the vertical distance
from the average established curb grade in front of the lot or from the average
finished grade at the building line, if higher, to the average height of the
top of the cornice of a flat roof, or roof line, or to the deck line of a
mansard roof, or to the middle height of the highest gable or dormer in a
pitched or hipped roof, or if there are no gables or dormers, to the middle
height of such pitched or hipped roof.
   HIGHWAY or PRIMARY THOROUGHFARE. An officially designated federal or state
numbered highway or other road designated as a highway or primary thoroughfare
on the thoroughfare plan as officially adopted and amended from time to time by
the Planning Commission.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home resting on a permanent foundation
with wheels, towing tongue and hitch permanently removed and connected to local
water, sewer and electrical systems.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet and
a bath or shower facility.
   JUNK YARD. An open area or fenced enclosure, where used or second hand
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, dissembled or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes an automobile wrecking
yard, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed building.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises where three or more dogs over four months
of age are kept.
   LAND USE PLAN.  The comprehensive long-range plan for the desirable use of
land in the community and those lands within one and one-half miles of the
community as officially adopted and as amended from time to time by the
Planning Commission; the purpose of such plan being, among other things, to
serve as a guide to the zoning and progressive changes in the zoning of land to
meet changing community needs, in the subdividing and use of undeveloped land,
and in the acquisition of land for such public purposes as streets, parks,
schools and other public buildings or public uses.
   LOT. A parcel of land, abutting on a street, whose area, in addition to the
parts thereof occupied or hereafter to be occupied by a building and its
accessory buildings, is sufficient to provide the yards and courts required by
this report.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, provided
that the interior angle made by the front lot lines at the intersection is less
than 135 degrees.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT AREA.  The horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot, except in
the case of a corner lot as provided in §
155.238.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance across the lot between side lot
lines at the building line measured at the right angles to the depth.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street or road. The owner of a corner lot will have two FRONT LOT
LINES.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is, or
most nearly, parallel to, the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds for the county; or a
parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded in the office of the Recorder
prior to adoption of the zoning ordinance.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure designed for the permanent habitation as a single-
family dwelling, and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels
temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, from place of its
construction or manufacture to the location at which it is intended to be a
permanent habitation.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which five or more independent mobile homes are located for permanent
habitation either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene or any
other motor fuel or lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is
offered for sale to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor
vehicles, including greasing and oiling and the sale of automobile accessories
on the premises.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or premises lawfully occupied at
the time of the enactment of the Zoning Code by a use that does not conform
with the provisions of the ordinance for the district in which it is located;
also such use resulting from changes in zoning districts or in textual
provisions made hereafter.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. An area on the owners lot, tract or parcel of land where
automobiles and/or other vehicles may be parked without blocking traffic on any
adjacent roadway, street or alley.
   OWNER.  The person to whom the special use permit is issued.
   PARKING AREA, ACCESSORY. An area of one or more parking spaces located on
the same property as the building, structure or premises it is intended to
serve, or on adjoining or nearby property, and of such shape and nature as to
be appropriate and usable for the parking or storage, loading and unloading of
self-propelled vehicles.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A consecutive period of three months or more.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, associations, trust or
partnership.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit issued to the applicant by the city.
   SETBACK LINE.  The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the front
or side of a structure and the nearest street line.
   SIGN.  Any structure or device for visual communication that is used for the
purpose of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not
including any flag, badge or insignia or any government or governmental agency,
or of any civic, charitable, religious, patriotic, fraternal or similar
organization, or any sign indicating address. Each display surface of a sign
shall be considered a SIGN.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of the same; however, such perimeter
shall not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign
and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SITE, MOBILE HOME. The lot, tract or parcel of land upon which the mobile
home is located as a dwelling place.
   SPACE. Shall be synonymous with site.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A certificate issued by the city to allow a person to
set up and use as a dwelling place a mobile home as defined in this chapter.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, or the ceiling or roof
next above such floor; provided that, for the purpose of determining the
required dimensions of yards and courts, when the average story height of a
building exceeds 12 feet, each 12 feet or fractional thereof of the total
building height shall be considered a separate full STORY or fractional STORY
respectively, except the first STORY, which may be 15 feet high.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than four
feet above the floor of such story; provided, however, that any partial story
used for residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker and his or
her family, shall be deemed a full story.
   STREET. Any public or private way set aside as a permanent right-of-way for
vehicular or pedestrian access 21 feet or more in width if it existed at the
time of the enactment of the Zoning Code; and any such public or private way
created after enactment of this ordinance, provided it is 50 feet or more in
width.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building
including but not limited to, bearing walls, load-bearing partitions, columns,
beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior
walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which required permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having permanent location on
the ground.
   SUSPENSION. To temporarily declare invalid a permit issued to the applicant
by the city.
   TIEDOWN or ANCHORING. A method of securing a mobile home to its foundation
in accordance to the specifications of 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., the Illinois
Mobile Home Tiedown Act of 1990 (Revised), and the Mobile Home Owners Tiedown
Guide, prepared by the State Department of Public Health, as amended.
   TRAILER (MOBILE HOME). Any vehicle, house car, camp car or any portable or
mobile vehicle on wheels, skids or rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or
propelled by other means, which is designated to be used for living, sleeping
or commercial purposes.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
building and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as hereinafter specified.
   YARD, FRONT, LEAST DEPTH. The shortest distance measured horizontally,
between any part of a building, other than such parts as hereinafter excepted,
and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. An open space extending the full width of a lot between a
building and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as hereinafter specified.
   YARD, REAR, LEAST DEPTH. The shortest distance measured horizontally,
between any part of a building, other than such parts as hereinafter excepted,
and the rear lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or gore-shaped
lot, a line ten feet in length entirely within the lot, parallel to and a
maximum distance from the front lot line, shall be considered the rear lot
line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between a building and the side lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as hereinafter specified.
(1999 Code, § 40-2-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964; Ord. 11-94, passed 5-25-
1994)
DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 155.015 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The city is divided into nine classes of districts both within the corporate
limits and one and one-half mile area outside the corporate limits in each
direction as follows:
   (A)   A-1, Agricultural Districts;
   (B)   R-1, One-Family Residence Districts;
   (C)   R-1A, One-Family Residence Districts;
   (D)   R-2, One- and Two-Family Residence Districts;
   (E)   R-3, Multi-Family Residence Districts;
   (F)   B-1, Secondary Business Districts;
   (G)   B-2, Primary Business Districts;
   (H)   M-1, Light Industrial Districts;
   (I)   M-2, General Industrial Districts; and
   (J)   F-1, Floodplain Districts.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.016 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of these districts are established as shown on a map for
territory within the corporate limits of the municipality as identified “Zone
District Map, Johnston City, Illinois, 26 October, 1964” and on a map for
territory immediately outside the corporate limits for the distance of one and
one-half miles in each direction identified as “Zoning District Map, City of
Johnston City, and Environs, Williamson County, Illinois, 26 October, 1964”,
which maps are hereinafter considered as one and the same map covering the
territories both inside and one and one-half miles outside the corporate
limits, hereinafter referred to as the “zoning map”, which accompanies and is
herewith made a part of this code. The district boundary lines on the map are
intended to follow lot lines, the centerlines of streets and alleys, the
centerlines of streets or alleys, the centerlines of streets or alleys
projected, railroad right-of-way lines, or the corporate limit lines, and other
identifiable established survey lines, all as they exist at the time of this
code; but where a district boundary line does not clearly coincide with lot
lines, it shall be determined by scaling.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.017 DISTRICT DIVIDING LOT.
   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single ownership
and of record at the time of this date, the use authorized on and the other
district requirements applying to the less restricted portion of such lot shall
be considered as extending to the entire lot provided that where the more
restricted portion of such lot is more than 50 feet of the boundary line.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.018 BOUNDARY LINE DECIDED BY BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be
determined by the Board of Appeals according to rules and regulations which it
may adopt, as hereinafter provided under §§
155.255 through
155.260.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.019 ANNEXATION.
   All territory which may be annexed to the community shall be closed as
previously designated by the Planning Commission or R-1 One-Family Residence
District, until such classification shall have changed as provided by this
code.
(1999 Code, § 40-3-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.030 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY STRUCTURE AND USE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure or land should
hereafter be used and no building or part hereof or structure shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, occupied, moved, altered or repaired, except in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the class of district in
which is it located.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 CONTINUING EXISTING USES.
   Any building, structure or use lawfully existing at the time of enactment of
the Zoning Code may be continued, except certain nonconforming uses as provided
in §
155.032. Nothing in the code shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by the
Building Inspector.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.032 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided under division (B) below:
      (1)   Any nonconforming building or structure which has been or may be
damaged by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot or other act of God,
may be reconstructed and used as before if it be done within 12 months of such
calamity, unless damaged more than 50% of its fair market value, as determined
by the Board of Appeals, at the time of such damage, in which case
reconstruction shall be in accordance with the provisions of this report;
      (2)   No building, structure or premises where a nonconforming use has
been or may be discontinued for more than one year, or has been or may be
changed to a use permitted in the district in which it is located, shall again
be devoted to a nonconforming use;
      (3)   Any nonconforming use of land not involving any structure, may be
continued for a period not to exceed three years after enactment of the Zoning
Code, whereupon such nonconforming use shall cease or structure shall be
removed; and
      (4)   Any building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use with a
fair market value of less than $500, as determined by the Board of Appeals, may
be continued for a period not to exceed three years after enactment of the
Zoning Code, whereupon such nonconforming use should cease and thereafter such
building or structure should be removed or changed to a conforming use.
   (B)   The provisions of the section, insofar as these limit reconstruction
or require certain uses to cease or buildings or structures to be removed or
changed, should not be applicable where any such building, structure or use
would be conforming under the Land Use Plan of the community as defined in §
155.002.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.033 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED; REAR DWELLINGS.
   No lot shall contain any building used as a dwelling unless it abuts at
least 30 feet on a street. No building in the rear of a principal building on
the same lot should be used as a dwelling.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.034 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A LOT.
   Not more than one principal detached residential building shall be located
on a lot, nor should a principal detached residential building be located on
the same lot with any other principal building.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.035 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No accessory building shall be erected in any required court, or in
any yard other than a rear yard; nor should it occupy more than 30% of a
required rear yard. Accessory buildings should not exceed 15 feet in height,
and shall be distant at least three feet from all lot lines of adjoining lots
which are in any R District and at least six feet from alley lines and from
other building or structure on the same lot. Where the natural grade of a lot
at the front wall of the principal building is more than eight feet above the
average established curb grade in front of the lot, a private garage may be
erected within any yard or court, but not within ten feet of any street line,
provided that at least one-half of the height of such private garage shall be
below the level of the yard or court.
   (B)   An accessory building may be erected as an integral part of the
principal building, or, if at least six feet therefrom, may be connected
thereto by a breezeway or similar structure, provided all yard and court
requirements of this report for a principal building are complied with.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-6) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.036 REQUIRED YARD CANNOT BE REDUCED OR USED BY ANOTHER BUILDING.
   (A)   No lot, yard, court, parking area or other open space shall be so
reduced in area or dimension as to make any such area or dimension less than
the minimum required by this report, and if already less than the minimum
required it should not be further reduced. No required open space provided
about any building or structure should be included as part of any open space
required for another building or structure.
   (B)   The space occupied by a required private garage or parking area should
be considered the same as any required open space provided about a principal
building, and such space shall not be reduced or included as any part of any
required open space for another building or structure.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-7) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.037 WHEN COURTS ARE REQUIRED.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, any room in which
persons were to live, sleep or work, except storage rooms, would not be
adequately lighted and ventilated from a street or from a required side or rear
yard, a court conforming with the provisions of the Building Code shall be
provided on which such rooms should open.
   (B)   Any required court which is to serve rooms for residential purposes,
other than a bathroom, toilet compartment, pantry, hall, closet, storage room
or other accessory room not for living or sleeping, should be an outer court.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-8) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.038 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under the Zoning Code, and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, dimensions of yards and other open spaces, and off-street
parking. Each conversion should be subject also to such further requirements as
may be specified hereinafter within this subchapter applying to such district.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-9) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.039 TRANSITIONAL USES IN R DISTRICTS.
   In any R-1 or R-2 District, a transition use should be permitted on a lot
the side lot line of which adjoins, either directly or across an alley, any B
or M District. The permitted transitional uses for any such lot in an R-
1 District shall be any use permitted in the R-2 District; for any such lot in
an R-2 District any use permitted in the R-3 District. In the case of any such
lot in an R-1 and R-2 District, the requirement governing lot area per dwelling
unit, off-street parking, yards and other open spaces should be the same as for
the district respectively next listed in §§
155.055 through
155.059. Any transitional use authorized under this section should not extend
more than 100 feet from the side lot line of the lot abutting on the zoning
district boundary line.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-10) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.040 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any R District on any corner lot, no fence, structure or planting should
be erected or maintained within 20 feet of the “corner” so as to interfere with
traffic visibility across the corner.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-11) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.041 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services should be permitted as authorized and regulated by law
and other codes of the community, it being the intention hereof to exempt such
essential services from the application of the Zoning Code.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-12) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.042 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In any district spaces for off-street parking and for loading or unloading
should be provided in accordance with the provisions of §
155.215.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-13) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.043 PENDING APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained should require any change in the overall layout,
plans, construction, size or designated use of any development, building,
structure or part thereof, for which official approvals and required building
permits have been granted before the enactment of the Zoning Code, the
construction of which, conforming with such plans, shall have been started
prior to the effective date of the Zoning Code and completion thereof carried
on in a normal manner within the subsequent six-month period, and not
discontinued until completion, except for reasons beyond the builders’ control.
(1999 Code, § 40-4-14) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.055 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   (A)   Agriculture and agricultural buildings provided that no livestock
shall be housed closer than 200 feet from any lot in any R District.
   (B)   Any buildings or structures occupied by or used for churches, Sunday
schools, parish houses, public and parochial schools, public libraries, museums
and similar public cultural uses, located not less than 40 feet from any other
side lot line in any R District.
   (C)   Open air recreational use such as parks and playgrounds.
   (D)   Essential services, as defined in §
155.002, and public service buildings or properties, except such uses as
storage yards, warehouses, garages or other uses customarily conducted as
gainful business, provided any building is located not less than 40 feet from
any other lot in any R District.
   (E)   Cemeteries.
   (F)   Existing railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage,
freight yards or sidings.
   (G)   Sale of nursery and greenhouse products where production or growth of
products takes place on the premises.
   (H)   County clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs and similar recreational
uses provided that any principal or accessory building in connection therewith
shall be located not less than 200 feet from any other lot in any R District.
   (I)   Farm dwellings and single-family non-farm dwellings.
   (J)   Billboards and signboards subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   No billboard or signboard shall be located within 300 feet of any R
District.
      (2)   No billboard or signboard shall be located within 80 feet of a
federal or state highway or within 60 feet of any other public road.
      (3)   No billboard or signboard shall contain more than 300 square feet
of surface area nor be higher than 25 feet above the average grade.
      (4)   No billboard or signboard shall be located within 500 feet of an
exit or entrance to a controlled access route.
      (5)   Billboards or signboards may have constant or flashing
illumination, provided that any such sign located in the direct line of vision
of any traffic control signaling device shall not have contrasting or flashing
intermittent illumination or red, green or amber color. Where a sign is
illuminated by light reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not project
upon any part of any existing state or federal highway, existing residential
structure or any R District.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.056 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses require approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals:
   (A)   Sanitary land fills, in accordance with other applicable requirements
and regulations provided that no such land fill shall be operated within 1,320
feet of any R District;
   (B)   Mining, loading or coal, sand or gravel, including equipment,
buildings or structures for washing, crushing, screening, mixing or storage
subject to the following conditions and restrictions.
      (1)   No open pit or shaft shall be located less than 500 feet from any
residence.
      (2)   No open pit or shaft shall be located less than 1,320 feet from any
R District.
      (3)   All buildings or structures for washing, crushing, screening,
mixing or storage shall be located not less than 500 feet from any residence
and 1,320 feet from any R District.
      (4)   The operator of an open pit mine shall be required to furnish the
Board with a topographic map for that area proposed for open pit mining and
upon completion of the mining operation should replace the ground as near to
the original topography as is possible.
      (5)   A surety bond of a state approved bonding company shall be posted
with the corporate authorities equal to $500 an acre for the land to be open
pit mined. Such bond shall be held until the mine operator has fulfilled the
provisions of division (B)(4) above, or has defaulted when such money should be
used by the corporate authorities to complete the provisions of division (B)(4)
above.
   (C)   Oil wells and the storage of crude oil, provided that no such
operation should be conducted within 200 feet of any residence and 500 feet of
any lot in an R District.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.057 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal use on the
same lot therewith, including:
   (A)   Private garages or parking areas;
   (B)   Buildings and structures accessory to agriculture uses, including
roadside stands selling produce grown on the premises, provided that such
stands are located not less than 50 feet from a street or highway right-of-way.
Signs accessory to roadside stands shall be limited to two per lot with no sign
larger than ten square feet and set back 30 feet from the right-of-way. Such
signs shall be less than 15 feet in height and pertain to agricultural products
offered for sale and identification of such stand;
   (C)   Real estate signs of a temporary nature, not exceeding two in number
per lot nor larger than 12 square feet, set back 20 feet from any highway,
street or road;
   (D)   Small announcement or professional signs, not exceeding four square
feet in area, except that an announcement sign or bulletin board, not over 12
square feet in area, set back 20 feet from any right-of-way may be erected in
connection with any of the permitted principal uses of a nonresidential
character;
   (E)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
   (F)   Office of a physician, dentist, lawyer, architect, engineer,
accountant or insurance agent within his or her dwelling;
   (G)   Customary incidental home occupations such as handicraft, dress-
making, millinery and preserving, but not including, beauty shop, barber shop,
dancing or music school with more than one pupil at any one time, or similar
activity carried on solely by resident occupants within their residence,
subject to the following provisions: no more than one room is used for such
purposes by any resident family; that no such use shall require internal or
external alterations or involve construction features or the use of mechanical
equipment not customary in dwellings; that nothing not produced on the premises
is sold or offered for sale; and that no display of goods or services
pertaining to such is visible from the street, road or highway; and
   (H)   A sign or signs flat against a building appertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises, not exceeding in the aggregate 50 square
feet in area; except as may be authorized by the Board of Appeals.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.058 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in
height, and no accessory structure should exceed one story or 15 feet in
height, except as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-5-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.059 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE, YARD AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241.
 
          Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard   Side Yard Rear Yard Depth Floor Area
                             Depth        Depth
                             80 ft. along
                             state and
1 to 2-1/                    federal
2 stories 4 acres  300 ft.   highways; 60 30 ft.    100 ft.         960 ft.
                             ft. along
                             other public
                             roads
 
(1999 Code, § 40-5-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.070 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted:
   (A)   One-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Any buildings or structures occupied by or used for churches, Sunday
schools, parish houses, public and parochial elementary and secondary schools,
public libraries, museums and similar public cultural uses, located not less
than 25 feet from any other lot line in any R District;
   (C)   Essential services as defined in §
155.002, and municipal administrative or public service buildings or
properties, except such uses as storage yards, warehouses, garages or other
uses customarily conducted as gainful business, provided any building is
located not less than 25 feet from any other lot in any R District;
   (D)   Public and civic parks, playgrounds and community centers;
   (E)   Existing railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage,
freight yards or sidings;
   (F)   Gardening and general farming, nurseries and greenhouses, including
sale of produce grown on the premises, but not including commercial chicken
farms, hog farms or other commercial animal farms provided that any building
where farm animals are kept should be distant at least 100 feet from every lot
line;
   (G)   Country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs and similar recreational
uses, provided that any principal or accessory building in connection therewith
should be located not less than 100 feet from any other lot in an R District;
and
   (H)   Static transformer stations, and booster or pressure regulating
stations, without service yard or storage.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.071 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal use on the
same lot therewith, including:
   (A)   Private garages or parking areas;
   (B)   Living quarters or persons employed on the premises;
   (C)   Office of a physician, dentist, lawyer, architect, engineer,
accountant or insurance agent within his or her dwelling;
   (D)   Customary incidental home occupations such as handicraft, dress-
making, millinery and preserving, but not including, beauty shop, barber shop,
dancing or music school with more than one pupil at one time, or similar
activity, carried in solely by resident occupants within their residence,
subject to the following provisions: that no more than one room is used for
such purposes by any resident family; that no such use shall require internal
or external alterations or involve construction features or the use of
mechanical equipment not customary found in dwellings; that nothing not
produced on the premises is sold or offered for sale; and that no display of
goods or services pertaining to such is visible from the street;
   (E)   Real estate signs of a temporary nature, not exceeding two in number
per lot, nor larger than 12 square feet in area, set back 20 feet from any
street;
   (F)   Small announcement or professional signs, not exceeding four square
feet in area, except that an announcement sign or bulletin board, not over 12
square feet in area, set back 20 feet from any right-of-way, may be erected in
connection with any of the permitted principal uses of a nonresidential
character; and
   (G)   A sign or signs flat against a building appertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises, not exceeding in the aggregate 50 square
feet in area, except as may be authorized by the Board of Appeals.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.072 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure should exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in
height, and no accessory structure shall exceed one story or 15 feet in height,
except as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-6-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.073 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE, YARD AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements should be observed, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241.
 
Floor area                            1,200 square feet
Front yard depth                      40 feet
Lot area                              40,000 square feet where neither public
                                      sewer or water are available
                                     12,000 square feet where both public
                                      sewer and water are available
Maximum lot coverage by principle and 15%
accessory structures
Rear yard depth                       60 feet with public sewer and 100 feet
                                      without public sewer
Side yard width                       15 feet each yard
 
(1999 Code, § 40-6-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
R-1A ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.085 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted:
   (A)   One-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Any buildings or structures occupied by or used for churches, Sunday
schools, parish houses, public and parochial elementary and secondary schools,
public libraries, museums and similar public cultural uses, located not less
than 25 feet from any other lot line in any R District;
   (C)   Essential services as defined in §
155.002, and municipal administrative or public service buildings or
properties, except such uses as storage yards, warehouses, garages or other
uses customarily conducted as gainful business, provided any building is
located not less than 25 feet from any other lot in any R District;
   (D)   Public and civic parks, playgrounds and community centers;
   (E)   Existing railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage,
freight yards or sidings;
   (F)   Gardening and general farming, nurseries and greenhouses, including
sale of produce grown on the premises, but not including commercial chicken
farms, hog farms or other commercial animal farms provided that any building
where farm animals are kept should be distant at least 100 feet from every lot
line;
   (G)   Country clubs, golf courses, swimming clubs, and similar recreational
uses, provided that any principal or accessory building in connection therewith
should be located not less than 100 feet from any other lot in an R District;
and
   (H)   Static transformer stations and booster or pressure regulating
stations, without service yard or storage.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.086 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal use on the
same lot therewith, including:
   (A)   Private garages or parking areas;
   (B)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
   (C)   Office of a physician, dentist, lawyer, architect, engineer,
accountant or insurance agent within his or her dwelling;
   (D)   Customary incidental home occupations such as handicraft, dress-
making, millinery and preserving, but not including beauty shop, barber shop,
dancing or music school with more than one pupil at one time, or similar
activity, carried on solely by resident occupants within their residence,
subject to the following provisions: that no more than one room is used for
such purposes by any resident family; that no such use shall require internal
or external alterations or involve construction features or the use of
mechanical equipment not customary found in dwellings; that nothing not
produced on the premises is sold or offered for sale; and that no display of
goods or services pertaining to such is visible from the street;
   (E)   Real estate signs of a temporary nature, not exceeding two in number
per lot nor larger than 12 square feet in area, set back 20 feet from any
street;
   (F)   Small announcement or professional signs, not exceeding four square
feet in area, except that an announcement sign or bulletin board, not over 12
square feet in area, set back 20 feet from any right-of-way, may be erected in
connection with any of the permitted principle uses of a nonresidential
character; and
   (G)   A sign or signs flat against a building appertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises, not exceeding in the aggregate 50 feet in
area, except as may be authorized by the Board of Appeals.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.087 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure should exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in
height, and no accessory structure should exceed one story or 15 feet in
height, except as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-7-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.088 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE, YARD AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §
155.237 through
155.241.
 
Floor area                            1,000 square feet for one story; 900
                                      square feet for every story
Front yard depth                      40 feet
Lot area                              9,000 square feet where both public sewer
                                      and water are available
Maximum lot coverage by principle and 20%
accessory structures
Rear yard depth                       40 feet with public sewer
Side yard width                       8 feet each yard
 
(1999 Code, § 40-7-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
R-2 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.100 PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are hereby permitted:
   (A)   Any use or structure permitted and as regulated in the R-1 District,
except as hereinafter modified;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings;
   (C)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes not for contagious disease of
for epileptics, drug or liquor addicts, and institutions not for penal or
correctional purposes or for the insane or feeble minded, provided that any
such building shall be at least 50 feet from any other lot in any R District;
and other hospitals or sanitariums for human care provided that any such
buildings used for the treatment of contagious diseases, the care of
epileptics, drug addicts, the feeble minded or insane, shall be at least 100
feet from any other lot in any R District;
   (D)   Cemeteries; and
   (E)   Parking areas for uses in an adjoining less restricted district, when
abutting or directly across an alley, subject to the applicable conditions in §
155.215.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.101 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted when approved by the Zoning Board:
   (A)   Residence development projects (see § 155.218); and
   (B)   Dwelling groups (see § 155.217).
(1999 Code, § 40-8-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.102 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses: R-1 Residence District accessory
uses.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.103 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure should exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in
height, and no accessory structure should exceed one story or 15 feet in
height, except as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-8-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.104 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE, LOT COVERAGE YARD AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241:
                                      1,050 square feet per family for single-
Floor area                            family and 900 square feet for each
                                      family in a two-family residence
Front yard depth                      30 feet
Lot area                              7,000 square feet
Lot area per family                   4,000 square feet
Lot width                             70 feet
Maximum lot coverage by principle and 20%
accessory structures
Rear yard depth                       40 feet
Side yard width                       12 feet each yard
 
(1999 Code, § 40-8-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.115 PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted:
   (A)   Any use or structure permitted and as regulated in the R-2 District,
except as hereinafter modified;
   (B)   Dwellings for any number of families;
   (C)   Boarding and lodging houses providing 150 square feet of floor area
for each occupant;
   (D)   Kindergartens, day nurseries or nursery schools, provided that any
play lot used in connection therewith be surrounded by a fence not less than
three feet in height;
   (E)   Private clubs and lodges;
   (F)   Tourist homes; motels and motor hotels on lots abutting on state or
federal highways, subject to the applicable provision of §§
155.219;
   (G)   Office of civic, religious or charitable organizations and financial
or insurance institutions conducting their activities primarily by mail and not
handling merchandise or rendering services on the premises;
   (H)   Physicians’ and dentists’ offices and private clinics for human care,
professional offices or architects, engineers, lawyers and the like; offices
devoted to real estate, insurance, management and similar enterprises when
conducting their activities primarily by mail or telephone and not displaying
or handling merchandise on the premises; and
   (I)   Trailer parks, provided that public or community sewer and water
facilities are available to each trailer, and that each existing trailer space
contains 3,000 square feet of area.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.116 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted with the approval of the Zoning Board: R-
2 Residence District Board of Appeals uses.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.117 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   R-2 Residence District accessory uses.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.118 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure should exceed six stories or 75 feet in height, at
the required front, side and rear yard line, other than as provided in §
155.236, except than one foot may be added to the height permitted at the yard
lines for each one foot that the building is set back from the required yard
lines.
(1999 Code, § 40-9-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.119 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE, LOT COVERAGE AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241.
Lot area                              5,500 square feet
Lot width                             60 feet
Front yard depth                      30 feet
Rear yard depth                       40 feet
Side yard width                       10 feet each yard
Lot area per family                   3,000 square feet
                                      900 square feet for one-family residence;
Floor area                            600 square feet for each family in a two-
                                      family residence, and 350 square feet for
                                      each family in a multi-family residence
Maximum lot coverage by principle and 30%
accessory structures
 
(1999 Code, § 40-9-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
B-1 SECONDARY BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 155.130 PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are hereby permitted:
   (A)   R-3 District residential uses or structures;
   (B)   Any retail business establishment, supplying commodities primarily for
residents of the surrounding residential area or to persons in vehicles passing
in front of an establishment such as appliance store, auto accessory store,
bakery shop, book or stationery store, camera or photography shop, candy or ice
cream store, drug store, fabric shop, floor covering store, florist shop,
furniture store, gift shop, grocery store, clothing store, hardware or paint
store, hobby shop, jewelry store, meat market, motor fuel station subject to
the conditions stipulated in §§
155.215 through
155.220, restaurant or bar, shoe store, variety store, motels or motor hotels,
liquor store, second hand store and rummage shop, heating and air conditioning
shop, plumbing shop, electrical shop, sheet metal shop, drive-in trailer sales,
automobile and truck sales with minor repair, bowling alley, pool or billboard
hall, animal hospital, and the like;
   (C)   Any service establishment such as a bank or other financial
enterprise, barber or beauty shop, business or professional office, funeral
home and self-service laundry; and
   (D)   Billboards and signboards subject to the same height and location
requirements as stated in §§
155.132 and
155.133 for all structures and also subject to the following conditions and
restrictions in B-1 Districts.
      (1)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising sign should be
located at an intersection so as to obstruct vision hearing, or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
      (2)   No billboard, signboard or similar advertising sign should be
located within 50 feet of any lot in a R-1 District or within 40 feet of any
lot in a R-2 or R-3 District.
      (3)   No billboard, signboard or similar sign should be constructed or
located so that it will unreasonably interfere with the use and enjoyment of
adjoining or abutting property.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.131 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   R-3 Residence District accessory uses;
   (B)   Other accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal
use, including signs integral with or attached flat against a building.
Elevated signs not exceeding past any lot line. Projecting signs located not
less than ten feet above average grade and not extending more than ten feet
from any building to which they are attached; and
   (C)   The total gross area of all signs on a lot should not exceed two times
the lineal frontage of the lot.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.132 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure should exceed two stories or 25 feet in height, and
no accessory structure should exceed two stories or 30 feet in height, except
as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-10-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.133 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND LOT COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements should be observed, subject to the
additional requirements exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241.
 
         Lot Area    Lot Width  Front Yard Side Yard    Rear Yard Lot Coverage
                                 Depth      Width        Depth     (Maximum)
Dwellings Same as R-3 District
                                            None, except
Other     10,000      100 square            where
permitted square feet feet       40 feet    adjacent to  20 feet   50%
uses                                        R District,
                                            then 15 feet
 
(1999 Code, § 40-10-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
B-2 PRIMARY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.145 PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are hereby permitted:
   (A)   B-1 Business District uses;
   (B)   Bus terminal;
   (C)   Business or trade schools;
   (D)   Cabinet shop, electrical, heating, air conditioning or plumbing shop,
furniture upholstering shop only when operated in conjunction with a retail
business on the premises, printing, publishing, engraving or lithographing
shop, laundry and dry cleaning shop, and similar establishments, but not within
100 feet of any R District;
   (E)   Dance hall, bar or cocktail lounge, night club and similar enterprises
but not within 100 feet of any R District;
   (F)   Department stores;
   (G)   Hotels;
   (H)   Meeting halls, clubs and fraternal organizations;
   (I)   Music and dancing studios;
   (J)   Public parking lots, customer and other accessory parking areas,
subject to the applicable provisions of §
155.215;
   (K)   Radio and other wireless broadcasting stations or studios, not
including transmitting towers; and
   (L)   Other business, professional or service establishments, or retail or
wholesale business, except the uses first permitted in the M-1 District, unless
authorized by the Board of Appeals as provided hereinafter under §
155.146(B), and except such as are expressly prohibited hereinafter under §
155.148.
(1999 Code, § 40-11-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.146 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted with the Zoning Boards approval:
   (A)   Automobile sales, service and storage garages, subject to the
provisions of §§
155.215 through
155.220. Drive-in sales or service establishments requiring vehicular access
across a public sidewalk, in such locations where interference with the conduct
of retail business on adjoining or adjacent premises or hazard to pedestrians
will be minimized; and
   (B)   Any of the uses permitted in the M-1 District, under the conditions
and limitations specified in such district, and subject to such farther
conditions and limitations in regard to amount of floor area to be occupied by
mechanical equipment and in other respects as the Board may consider necessary
to safeguard against features which may become objectionable in a B-2 Business
District.
(1999 Code, § 40-11-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.147 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted:
   (A)   B-1 Business District accessory uses; and
   (B)   Other accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted use.
(1999 Code, § 40-11-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.148 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are hereby prohibited:
   (A)   Any commercial or manufacturing use which may become noxious or
offensive in a B-2 Business District;
   (B)   Residential uses other than hotels, unless secondary or accessory to a
business, professional or service establishment, provided, that no residential
use is permitted on the ground floor or entry level of any building zones as B-
2.
   (C)   Motor fuel stations; and
   (D)   Used car lots.
(1999 Code, § 40-11-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964; Ord. 3-95, passed 4-11-
1995) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.149 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No structure shall exceed in two times the distance from the center of the
street, except as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-11-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.150 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241.
 
              Front Yard Depth Side Yard Widths Each  Rear Yard Depth
                                None, except adj. R    10 feet, except adj. R
Permitted uses None             District, then same as District, then same as R
                                R District             District
 
(1999 Code, § 40-11-6) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.165 PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are hereby permitted:
   (A)   Any use or structure permitted and as regulated in the B-2 District,
except as hereinafter modified;
   (B)   Builder’s or contractor’s plant or storage yard, building material
sales and storage yard including concrete mixing, lumber yard including
millwork, open yard for storage and sale of feed or fuel, if located not less
than 100 feet from any R District, provided any such operations are enclosed by
a solid wall or fence not less than six feet in height;
   (C)   Sewage disposal plant, when operated by the municipality;
   (D)   The following uses, provided no part of a building occupied by such
uses shall have any openings other than stationary windows or required fire
exits within 100 feet of any R District:
      (1)   Automobile repair garage doing major repair, including tire
retreading or recapping, battery service and repair;
      (2)   Bag, carpet and rug cleaning, provided necessary equipment is
installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust;
      (3)   Carpenter, electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing or sheet
metal shop, furniture repair or upholstering shop, laundry and clothes cleaning
or dyeing establishment, printing or publishing plant;
      (4)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries
and food products, including light meat packing, canning, milk products and the
like, but excluding fish products, slaughter houses, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast
and rendering and refining of fats or oils;
      (5)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles
of merchandise from the following previously prepared material: bone, canvas,
cellophane, cloth, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather,
paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or stone, rubber, sheet metal
including stamping or welding shop (except where presses over 20 tons rated
capacity are employed) shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wood and yarn;
      (6)   The manufacture of ceramic products, using only previously
pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by electricity or gas;
      (7)   The manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties, rubber or
metal stamps, and other small molded rubber products;
      (8)   The manufacture of assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, phonographs, radio and television sets, electric and
neon signs, refrigerators and stoves;
      (9)   The manufacture of ice; cold storage plant; creamery and bottling
plant;
      (10)   The manufacture or assembly of small tools, dies or jigs;
      (11)   Laboratory: experimental, film or testing; and
      (12)   Cabinet shops and other wood working shops.
   (E)   Railroad freight stations, trucking or motor freight terminals, but
not within 100 feet of any other lot in any R District; and
   (F)   Any other use that is determined by the Board of Appeals to be of the
same general character as the foregoing permitted uses, but not including any
use which may become noxious or offensive in an M-1 District.
(1999 Code, § 40-12-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.166 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted:
   (A)   B-2 Business District accessory uses; and
   (B)   Other accessory uses customarily incidental permitted principal use.
(1999 Code, § 40-12-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.167 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted with the Zoning Boards’ approval: any use
not prohibited by law but only when a necessary incidental accessory to a
permitted principal use except one which may become noxious or offensive in a
M-1 District.
(1999 Code, § 40-12-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.168 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are hereby prohibited:
   (A)   Dwellings, except for watchman or caretaker on the premises;
   (B)   Schools, hospitals, clinics and other institutions for human care,
except when incidental to a permitted principal use; and
   (C)   Any use first permitted or prohibited in the M-2 Industrial District.
(1999 Code, § 40-12-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.169 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.240 and
155.241.
 
Height of Permitted  Front Yard Depth Side Yard Widths Each Rear Yard Depth
Uses
                                      None, except,
1 to 3 stories or 50 30 feet          adjoining R District, 40 feet
feet in height                        then same as R
                                      District
Greater than 3       60% of building  (Same as above)       40 feet
stories or 50 feet   height
 
(1999 Code, § 40-12-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
M-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.180 PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses hereby permitted:
   (A)   Any use or structure permitted and as regulated in the M-1 District,
except as hereinafter modified;
   (B)   Automobile salvage and wrecking operations, and industrial metal and
waste salvage operations and junk yards, if located not less than 100 feet from
any R District, provided all operations are conducted within an area enclosed
on all sides with a solid wall or tight board fence not less than eight feet
high, and which fence or wall shall be maintained to the satisfaction of the
Building Inspector;
   (C)   Flammable liquids storage, underground only, not to exceed a total of
25,000 gallons;
   (D)   Railroad yards;
   (E)   The following uses, provided no part of a building occupied by such
uses shall have any opening, other than stationary windows or required fire
exits, within 100 feet of any R District:
      (1)   Blacksmith, welding and other metal working or machine shop;
      (2)   Foundry, casting lightweight non-ferrous metals, or electric
foundry not causing noxious fumes or odors; and
      (3)   Planning mill and veneer manufacturing.
   (F)   Any of the following uses, when located not less than 200 feet from
any R District, and not less than 100 feet from any other district, except an
M-1 District:
      (1)   Acetylene manufacturing in excess of 15 pounds pressure per square
inch;
      (2)   Acid manufacture, except as specified as a conditional use in §
155.167;
      (3)   Asbestos manufacturing;
      (4)   Automobile, tractor, trailer, farm implement assembly of
manufacturing;
      (5)   Bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant;
      (6)   Boiler shops, machine shops, structural steel fabricating shops,
railway car and locomotive shops, including repair, metal working shops;
      (7)   Brewing or distilling of liquors;
      (8)   Brick, pottery, tile and terra cotta manufacturing;
      (9)   Bulk station;
      (10)   Cans and other types of containers;
      (11)   Candle or sperm oil manufacturing;
      (12)   Cement products;
      (13)   Cooperage works;
      (14)   Dextrine, starch or glucose manufacturing;
      (15)   Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacturing;
      (16)   Dye and dyestuff manufacture;
      (17)   Enameling, lacquering or japanning;
      (18)   Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacturing;
      (19)   Felt manufacturing;
      (20)   Flour or grain mill;
      (21)   Forge or foundry works;
      (22)   Gas; generator or storage for illuminating or heating;
      (23)   Grain drying or poultry feed manufacturing, from refuse, mash or
grain;
      (24)   Hair or hair products manufacturing;
      (25)   Lime or lime products manufacturing;
      (26)   Linoleum, oil cloth or oiled goods manufacturing;
      (27)   Machinery manufacturing;
      (28)   Match manufacturing;
      (29)   Meat packing; but not stockyards or slaughterhouses, specified as
a conditional use in §
155.182;
      (30)   Metal stamping and extrusion;
      (31)   Oil, paint, shellac, turpentine, varnish or enamel manufacturing;
      (32)   Paper and pulp manufacturing;
      (33)   Perfume manufacturing;
      (34)   Pickle, sauerkraut or sausage manufacturing;
      (35)   Plaster manufacturing;
      (36)   Poultry slaughterhouse, including packing and storage for
wholesale;
      (37)   Printing ink manufacturing;
      (38)   Radium extraction;
      (39)   Sandblasting or cutting;
      (40)   Sawmill, the manufacture or excelsior, wood fiber or sawdust
products;
      (41)   Sewage disposal plant or incinerator or sanitary landfill
operation except by the municipality;
      (42)   Shoddy manufacturing;
      (43)   Shoe blacking or polish or stove polish manufacturing;
      (44)   Soap manufacturing;
      (45)   Steam power plant, except where accessory to a permitted principal
use;
      (46)   Stone and monument works employing power driven tools;
      (47)   Sugar refining;
      (48)   Tar or asphalt roofing or water-proofing manufacturing;
      (49)   Tar distillation or manufacturing;
      (50)   Vinegar manufacturing;
      (51)   Wire or rod drawing; nut, screw or bolt manufacturing;
      (52)   Yeast manufacturing; and
      (53)   Any other use which, in the opinion of the Board of Appeals, is of
a similar character to those specified above.
   (G)   Any of the following uses when located not less than 400 feet from any
R District, and not less than 200 feet from any other district except an M-
1 District; or when authorized by the Board of Appeals as provided in §§
155.255 through
155.260 subject to such conditions and requirements as may, in the opinion of
the Board, be necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent conditions
which may become noxious or offensive:
      (1)   Ammonia, chlorine or bleaching powder manufacture;
      (2)   Animal black, lamp black, bond black or graphite manufacture;
      (3)   Asphalt or asphalt products manufacture;
      (4)   Celluloid or proxyline manufacturing, or explosive or inflammable
cellulose or proxyline products manufacturing or storage;
      (5)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (6)   Crematory;
      (7)   Creosote manufacture or treatment;
      (8)   Distillation of coal, petroleum, refuse, grain, wood or bones,
except in the manufacture of gas;
      (9)   Explosives manufacture or storage except for small arms ammunition;
      (10)   Fertilizer, compost; manufacture or storage;
      (11)   Fish curing, smoking or packing, fish oil manufacture or refining;
      (12)   Petroleum or flammable liquids production, refining and storage
above ground;
      (13)   Rock crushing;
      (14)   Rubber, caoutchouc or gutta-percha manufacture and treatment from
crude or scrap material or the manufacture of balata;
      (15)   Smelting of ferrous or non-ferrous ores;
      (16)   Storage, curing or tanning of raw, green or salted hides or skins
when refrigerated storage is provided;
      (17)   Sulphurous, sulphuric, nitric, picric, carbolic or hydrochloric or
other corrosive acid manufacture; and
      (18)   Any other use which in the opinion of the Board of Appeals is of a
similar character to those specified above.
(1999 Code, § 40-13-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.181 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   M-1 Industrial District accessory uses; and
   (B)   Other necessary uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal
use.
(1999 Code, § 40-13-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.182 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted with the approval of the Zoning Board: any
use not prohibited by law, but only when a necessary incidental accessory to a
permitted principal use.
(1999 Code, § 40-13-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.183 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Uses prohibited in the M-1 Industrial District under §
155.168(A) and (B); and
   (B)   Any use other than those authorized as a permitted principal or
accessory use in an M-2 District.
(1999 Code, § 40-13-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.184 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.240 and
155.241.
 
Height of Permitted Uses  Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width Each Rear Yard Depth
1 to 3 stories or 50 feet 20 feet          20 feet              40 feet
Greater than 3 stories or 60% of building  20 feet              30 feet
50 feet
 
(1999 Code, § 40-13-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
F-1 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS
§ 155.195 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   The following uses are hereby permitted:
   (A)   Agriculture, including customary agricultural buildings and
structures, but not including permanent dwellings; nurseries and greenhouses,
provided that any greenhouse heating plant, or any building or enclosure in
which animals are kept should comply with the distance requirement in §
155.198;
   (B)   Commercial poultry farms, kennels, riding stables and dairies,
provided that any building or enclosure in which animals or fowl are kept shall
comply with the distance requirement in §
155.198;
   (C)   Public parks, playgrounds and community centers; private recreation
areas and facilities, including country clubs, golf courses, fishing lakes and
boat docks;
   (D)   Baseball, football stadium or sports arena, provided that the location
of any structure used for such purposes shall comply with two times the
distance requirements in §
155.198; and
   (E)   Outdoor advertising signs and billboards set back from the established
right-of-way of any highway or thoroughfare at least as far as the required
front yard depth for a principal building.
(1999 Code, § 40-14-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.196 USES; WHEN AUTHORIZED.
   The following uses are permitted when approved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals:
   (A)   Drive-in theaters and other similar commercial recreation
establishments, provided that those are located on premises abutting on a
highway or primary thoroughfare, and so as to comply with two times the
distance requirement in §
155.198;
   (B)   Outdoor rifle or skeet shooting ranges; on premises so located as to
comply with three times the distance requirement in §
155.198, and which premises, in addition, are deemed suitable by the Board for
such use, for reasons, among others, of topography, screening by trees or other
features, and also in consideration of the present and potential use of
adjacent properties;
   (C)   Equipment and materials storage yards, and junk yards, provided these
are enclosed on all sides by a solid fence or wall not less than eight feet
high; petroleum or inflammable liquids storage; provided, further, that any of
the foregoing uses should be authorized only on premises adjoining and within
1,000 feet of a railroad or a highway or primary thoroughfare, and so located
as to comply with three times the distance requirement in §
155.198, and which premises, in addition, are deemed suitable by the Board of
Appeals for the intended use, for reasons, among others, of topography,
screening by trees or other features, and in consideration of the present and
potential use of adjacent properties;
   (D)   Commercial mines, quarries and gravel pits, temporary sawmills;
provided that any lot or tract of land for such use, other than for a temporary
sawmill, should be not less than ten acres in area, and provided that the
location of any such mine quarries and gravel pits be subject to the provisions
of §
155.056(B), and any power-driven or power-producing machinery or equipment in
connection with a temporary sawmill should comply with two times the distance
required in §
155.198;
   (E)   Disposal of refuse or garbage by the municipality or agents thereof;
and
   (F)   Any other use which, in the judgment of the Board, will not, when
located, constructed and operated as proposed, be inconsistent with the
purposes intended to be served by the provisions prescribed in this subchapter
for the F-1 District, among others, of protecting human life, preventing
material losses and reducing the cost to the public of relief or rescue efforts
occasioned by the unwise occupancy of areas subject to floods; and which use,
at the same time, will not impair the present or potential use of adjacent
properties.
(1999 Code, § 40-14-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.197 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses shall be permitted:
   (A)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted
principal use in the F-1 District; and
   (B)   Any other accessory use that is determined by the Board of Appeals to
be necessary and incidental to any aforesaid permitted principal use and
located on the same lot therewith, but not including any permanent residence
except for a watchman or caretaker employed on the premises.
(1999 Code, § 40-14-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.198 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses, buildings or premises, for which compliance with the distance
requirement in this section is stipulated in the foregoing sections of this
subchapter, shall be distant at least 200 feet from any lot in any R District,
or any lot occupied by a dwelling or by any schools, church or institution for
human care.
(1999 Code, § 40-14-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.199 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure should exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in
height, and no accessory structure should exceed one story or 15 feet in
height, except as provided in §
155.236.
(1999 Code, § 40-14-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.200 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications in §§
155.237 through
155.241.
 
              Lot Area Lot Width Front Yard Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
                                  Depth
Nonresidential
uses or        None     None      30 feet    20 feet         50 feet
structures
 
   (B)   Note: please refer to
Chapter 152 for the Floodplain Code.
(1999 Code, § 40-14-6) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.215 PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Off-street parking areas and loading spaces.
      (1)   In all districts, in connection with every building or part thereof
hereafter erected, having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more,
which is to be occupied by uses requiring the receipt or distribution by
vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on
the same premises with such building at least one off-street loading space
accessible from an alley, easement of access, or, when there is no such alley
or easement of access, from a street, plus one additional such loading space
for each 20,000 square feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area so
used in excess of 20,000 square feet. Such space may occupy all, or any part of
any required rear yard, or, upon authorization of the Board of Appeals, any
part of any other yard or court space.
      (2)   In all districts, except B-2, off-street accessory parking areas,
in the open or in a garage, should be provided in connection with the uses set
forth hereinafter and to the extent indicated therewith, in addition to the
above required loading and unloading spaces. Such areas, in the case of R
Districts and for dwellings in other districts, should be on the premises
intended to be served; and in the case of other districts, and in connection
with uses other than dwellings, such areas should be on the premises intended
to be served or on adjoining or nearby property within 100 feet of any part of
said premises and in the same or a less restricted district.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-1)
   (B)   Number of parking spaces required.
Use Parking Spaces Required
                                                                         Parking
Use                                                                      Spaces
                                                                         Required
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         1,000 sq.
                                                                         ft. of
Automobile or machinery sales and service garages                        floor area
                                                                         plus 1 for
                                                                         each full-
                                                                         time
                                                                         employee
                                                                         1 for each
Banks, business and professional offices                                 200 sq. ft.
                                                                         of floor
                                                                         area
Bowling alleys                                                           3 for each
                                                                         alley
                                                                         1 for each
Churches and schools                                                     4 seats in
                                                                         principal
                                                                         auditorium
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         300 sq. ft.
                                                                         of floor
                                                                         area
Convenience stores; drug, grocery, hardware and similar stores           devoted to
                                                                         sales, plus
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         full-time
                                                                         employee
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         50 sq. ft.
                                                                         of floor
Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed seats                       area used
                                                                         for
                                                                         assembly or
                                                                         dancing
                                                                         Not less
                                                                         than 1/3 of
                                                                         the total
                                                                         ground area
Drive-in eating establishments                                           be devoted
                                                                         exclusively
                                                                         to parking
                                                                         and
                                                                         accessways
                                                                         1 for each
Dwellings                                                                dwelling
                                                                         unit
                                                                         Minimum of
                                                                         1, plus 1
Food pickup establishments                                               for each
                                                                         100 sq. ft.
                                                                         of floor
                                                                         area
                                                                         6 per
                                                                         chapel room
                                                                         or parlor,
                                                                         or 1 per 50
Funeral homes, mortuaries                                                sq. ft. of
                                                                         rooms used
                                                                         for
                                                                         services,
                                                                         whichever
                                                                         is greater
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         5 beds,
Hospitals, nursing homes and similar care centers                        plus 1 for
                                                                         each 2
                                                                         doctors and
                                                                         employees
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         3 employees
Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories, bottling plants  on maximum
                                                                         working
                                                                         shift
Hotels, clubs and lodging houses                                         1 for each
                                                                         2 bedrooms
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         200 sq. ft.
                                                                         of floor
                                                                         area, plus
Medical or dental clinics                                                1 for each
                                                                         full-time
                                                                         employee
                                                                         and 1 for
                                                                         each doctor
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         unit, plus
Motels or motor hotels                                                   1 for each
                                                                         2 employees
                                                                         on maximum
                                                                         shift
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         employee on
Motor fuel stations                                                      duty plus 2
                                                                         for each
                                                                         service bay
Service establishments                                                    
                                                                         2 for each
                                                                         chair, plus
Barber shops                                                             1 for each
                                                                         2 employees
                                                                         on maximum
                                                                         shift
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         dryer plus
Beauty shops                                                             1 for each
                                                                         2 employees
                                                                         on maximum
                                                                         shift
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         3 washers
                                                                         and/or
                                                                         cleaning
   Coin-operated laundries and/or dry cleaning establishments         machine,
                                                                         plus 1 for
                                                                         each 2
                                                                         employees
                                                                         on maximum
                                                                         shift
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         3 seats
                                                                         plus 1 for
Restaurants                                                              each 2
                                                                         employees
                                                                         on maximum
                                                                         shift
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         500 sq. ft.
Shopper’s goods; appliance, household equipment, furniture and similar of floor
stores                                                                   area, plus
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         full-time
                                                                         employee
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         2 seats,
                                                                         plus 1 for
Taverns or bars                                                          each 2
                                                                         employees
                                                                         on maximum
                                                                         shift
Theaters                                                                 1 for each
                                                                         4 seats
                                                                         1 for each
                                                                         4 employees
Wholesale establishments                                                 on maximum
                                                                         working
                                                                         shift
In the case of any use which is not specifically mentioned herein, the provisions
for a similar use which is mentioned should apply
 
(1999 Code, § 40-15-2)
   (C)   Units of measurement for parking spaces.
      (1)   Parking space. Each parking space shall be not less than eight and
one-half feet wide and 20 feet long, or not less than 170 square feet in area
exclusive of access drives or aisles and in no case shall any portion of the
public right-of-way be used for required off-street parking.
      (2)   Loading space. Each loading space shall not be less than ten feet
wide, 40 feet in length and 14 feet in height, exclusive of access and turning
areas.
      (3)   Floor area. In the case of offices, merchandising or service types
of uses, FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to be used
by tenants, or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or
patient including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or
sale of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally for non-public
purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or packaging of
merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of stores or buildings, for toilet or rest rooms, for utilities, or
for dressing rooms, fitting or alteration rooms.
      (4)   Hospital bassinets. In hospitals, bassinets should not be counted
as beds.
      (5)   Benches in place of public assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas,
churches and other places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators
occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 20 inches of
such seating facilities should be counted as one seat for the purpose of
determining requirements for off-street parking facilities under this report.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-3)
   (D)   Development standards. Off-street accessory parking areas shall be of
usable shape, and shall be improved in accordance with requirements of the
community with a durable and dustless surface and so graded and drained as to
dispose of all surface water accumulation within the area. Any lighting used to
illuminate such parking areas should be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from adjoining premises in any R District.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-4)
   (E)   Variance of standards. The Board of Appeals may on appeal authorize a
modification, reduction or waiver of the foregoing requirements, if it shall
find that in the particular case the peculiar nature of the use, or other
exceptional situation or condition would justify such modification, reduction
or waiver.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-5)
(Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.216 GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. No building, structure or premises shall be used,
erected or altered which is intended or designed to be used as a public garage,
automobile repair shop or service station, having an entrance or exit for
vehicles in the same block-front and within 200 feet of any school, public
playground, church, hospital, public library or institution for dependents or
for children, and no such entrance or exit should be located within the same
block-front and within 20 feet of any R District; nor should any part of such
public garage, automobile repair shop or service station be located within 100
feet of any building or grounds of any of the aforesaid public or institutional
uses.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-9)
   (B)   General regulations. Service stations shall be subject to such further
regulations as may be established by code in respect to number of pumps, hours
of operation, fencing or screening, lighting, pavement, curbs and in other
respects.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-10) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.217 DWELLING GROUPS.
   (A)   In the case of a project consisting of a group of two or more
buildings to be constructed on a plot of ground not subdivided into the
customary streets and lots and which will not be so subdivided, or where the
existing or contemplated street and lot layout make it impracticable to apply
the requirements of this code to the individual building units in such project,
the applying of such requirements to such project should be done by the Board
of Appeals in a manner that will ensure substantially the same character of
occupancy, maximum intensity of use and minimum standard of open spaces as
suggested by this report in the district in which the proposed project is to be
located.
   (B)   In no case should the Board authorize a use or a building height
prohibited in the district in which the project is to be located, or a smaller
lot area per family than the minimum required under this Code in such district,
nor should the Board authorize a building coverage exceeding that which would
be obtained were the same area to be developed by the customary subdivision
thereof into streets and lots in conformance with the subdivision regulations
report, and by the type of buildings customary in the district and in
compliance with the requirements of this report.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-16) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.218 RESIDENCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   A residence development project, consisting of any number of
buildings, the contemplated arrangement of which makes it impossible to apply
the requirements of this report to the individual buildings, may be authorized
by the Board of Appeals in districts in which such projects are permitted by
this code.
   (B)   In so doing, the Board shall first refer the plans for such project to
the Plan Commission for study, public hearing and report upon finding that the
plans of such project meet the following conditions.
      (1)   The tract of land on which the project is to be erected comprises
at least five acres, unless comprising an entire block.
      (2)   The buildings are to be used only for residential purposes and the
customary accessory uses, such as private garages, storage spaces, recreational
and community activities.
      (3)   The average lot area per family or dwelling unit on the site,
exclusive of the area occupied by streets, will not be less than 80% of the lot
area per family required in the distance in which the project is to be located.
      (4)   There is to be provided within the tract, or immediately adjacent
thereto, parking spaces in private garages or off-street parking areas as
specified in §
155.215(A).
      (5)   There are to be provided, as a part of the project, adequate
recreation areas to serve the needs of the anticipated population to be housed
therein.
      (6)   The proposed project will constitute a residential environment of
sustained desirability and stability; that it will be in harmony with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood and ensure substantially the same
type of occupancy as obtained or may be expected to be obtained in said
neighborhood; that it will result in intensity of land utilization no higher,
and standards of open spaces at least as high as permitted or specified in this
code in the district in which the project is to be located.
      (7)   The project will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this
code to promote public health, safety and general welfare.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-19) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.219 MOTELS.
   (A)   Motel entrance. No vehicular entrance to or exit from any motel, or
motor hotel, wherever such may be located, should be within 200 feet along
streets from any school, public playground, church, hospital, library or
institution for dependents or for children, except where such property is in
another block or on another street, which the premises in question do not abut.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-21)
   (B)   Sanitary restrictions. Sanitary regulations and such regulations as
may otherwise be required by law, should be complied with in addition to the
following.
      (1)   Any lot to be used for a motel or motor hotel shall not be less
than 15,000 square feet in area and should contain not less than 1,000 square
feet per sleeping unit. All buildings and structures on the lot should occupy
in the aggregate not more than 25% of the area of the lot.
      (2)   All areas used for automobile access and parking shall comply with
the provisions of §
155.215(D).
      (3)   All areas not used for access, parking, circulation, buildings and
services shall be completely and permanently landscaped and the entire site
maintained in good condition.
      (4)   No enlargements or extensions to any motel or motor hotel shall be
permitted unless the existing one is made to conform substantially with all the
requirements for new construction for such an establishment.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-22) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.220 MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Consent of property owners. Prior to the issuance of any permit for a
mobile home under this code, the applicant shall obtain the written permission
for the establishment of the mobile home and issuance of the mobile home permit
from all property owners owning any real property located within 500 feet of
the property line of the lot, parcel or tract of land on which said mobile home
is to be located. (Additional requirements pertaining to obtaining the consent
of property owners are in division (A)(A) below.)
(1999 Code, § 40-15-30)
   (B)   Location. All mobile homes located within an area not to exceed one
and one-half miles beyond the city limits shall conform to the specifications
of this ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-31)
   (C)   Building permit required. No mobile home shall be constructed, moved
or placed upon any lot, tract or parcel of land, except within a licensed
mobile home park, until or unless a building permit has been obtained therefore
as provided in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-32)
   (D)   Physical dimensions. No mobile home shall be located in the city which
is less than 60 feet in length and 12 feet in width, not including towing
tongue, expanded section, add-ons, porches, stairways, attached storage
buildings and the like. Said mobile home shall have no less than 720 square
feet of usable year round interior living space.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-33)
   (E)   Foundations. Mobile homes to be located in the city shall rest on and
be securely attached to a permanent foundation or system of piers or pilings,
or concrete slab according to specifications established and provided by the
State Department of Public Health.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-34)
   (F)   Skirting. Mobile homes to be located in the city shall be fitted with
suitable skirting or other covering around the base or foundation of the unit
to visually hide the foundations, piers or crawl space beneath the mobile home.
All such skirting or covering shall be of fire-resistant materials, and provide
an access door or inspection hatch. Such skirting shall be in place within 30
days of the placement of the mobile home upon the site.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-35)
   (G)   Used, rebuilt or other than new. No mobile home shall be located in
the city that is more than ten years old. Applicant shall produce documentary,
photographic or other evidence attesting to the age and condition of any other
than new mobile home to be located in the city.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-36)
   (H)   City inspection. All mobile homes, whether new, used, rebuilt or
modified in any way shall upon installation and set-up be inspected by the City
Building Inspector and Fire Chief to confirm its compliance with this chapter,
and §§
150.085 through
150.097 (see
Chapter 151 also).
(1999 Code, § 40-15-37)
   (I)   Independent mobile homes prohibited. No independent mobile home shall
be located in the city to be used as a dwelling place. INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME
is defined as one that has a self-contained toilet and/or bath and shower
facilities.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-38)
   (J)   Site. All mobile homes to be located in the city shall be on a well-
drained site so that drainage will not constitute a hazard or nuisance to
persons, property or water supply in the vicinity of the site.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-39)
   (K)   Plot plan and lot size. A request for a permit to locate a mobile home
shall be accompanied by a plot plan of the lot development, showing the lot
size, planned location of the mobile home and the ownership of all parcels of
real estate located within 500 feet of the lot on which it is proposed to
locate said mobile home. The minimum lot size for any mobile home located in
the city shall be no less that 7,500 square feet, except that the lot may be no
less than 50 feet in width and no less than 150 feet in depth. No mobile home
shall be located within 20 feet of any lot boundary line. No mobile home shall
be located closer than 30 feet from any street or public road. No mobile home
shall be located closer than 30 feet from the rear property line. Distance
shall be measured from the overall width and length of the mobile home as
defined in this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-40)
   (L)   Off-street parking. Each mobile home owner shall provide for an off-
street parking area of no less than 400 square feet.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-41)
   (M)   Tiedown and anchoring. All mobile homes located in the city shall meet
the tie-down and anchoring requirements as specified in 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.,
the Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act of 1990 (Revised), as amended.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-42)
   (N)   Water. All mobile homes shall be connected to the city water supply,
and fitted with suitable water meter connections as provided in
Chapters 51 through
55.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-43)
   (O)   Sewer. All mobile homes shall be connected to the city sewer system as
provided in
Chapters 51 through
55.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-44)
   (P)   Electricity. All mobile homes shall be connected to the city
electrical system as specified in the current city contract with its provider
of electrical service or other electric company providing service to the area.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-45)
   (Q)   Fuel storage. All mobile home fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be
permanently and securely fastened, and shall not be located inside or beneath
the mobile home, or less than 15 feet from the mobile home entrances/exits.
Such fuel storage shall be permitted in approved tanks or containers mounted on
an incombustible frame or rack at the rear of the mobile home. Fuel tanks or
containers shall not exceed 300-gallon capacity unless approved in advance by
the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-46)
   (R)   Natural gas or butane system. All natural gas or butane systems shall
be installed according to the specifications in the current city contract with
its provider of such services. All gas piping installed below ground shall have
a minimum earth covering of 18 inches. No gas mains or lines shall be located
underground under any mobile home.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-47)
   (S)   System shut-off valve. A readily accessible and identified shut-off
valve, controlling the flow of fuel to the central fuel piping system shall be
installed near the point of connection to the main fuel system.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-48)
   (T)   Mobile home fuel shut-off valve. Each mobile home shall have an
approved shut-off valve installed upstream of the mobile home fuel outlet and
located on the outlet riser at the height of not less than four inches above
grade. Whenever the mobile home lot outlet is not in use, the outlet shall be
equipped with an approved cap or plug to prevent accidental discharge of fuel.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-49)
   (U)   Fuel oil distribution system. Fuel oil piping installed below ground
shall have a minimum earth covering of 18 inches and all fuel lines shall be
provided with a stopcock at the outlet of the fuel container, and another
stopcock just before the fuel line enters the mobile home. No fuel oil lines
shall be located or installed under any mobile home.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-50)
   (V)   Replacement mobile homes. Any mobile home to be located in the city as
a replacement for an existing mobile home, must conform to all specifications
and requirements of this chapter, including the procedure for application for a
new special use permit.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-51)
   (W)   Mobile homes. The City Council may issue a special use permit,
subsequent to the receipt of a special use zoning permit, to locate a mobile
home outside a mobile home park. All mobile homes located outside a mobile home
park must comply with the requirements of this section.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-52)
   (X)   Mobile homes improperly placed. Any mobile home improperly placed
shall be subject to penalties and fines as may be determined by the City
Council, and shall be removed at the owner’s expense. Any legal fees incurred
by the city, or other costs incurred as the result of an improperly placed
mobile home shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-53)
   (Y)   Mobile homes as a business. No mobile home shall be permitted to be
used as a permanent office, or place of business or any commercial enterprise.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-54)
   (Z)   Mobile home real estate tax. All mobile homes located in the city and
not in a mobile home or trailer park, with wheels, towing tongue or frame
removed, and placed on a permanent foundation, shall be classified as real
estate and taxes as such.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-55)
   (AA)   Special use permit.
      (1)   Notification. A special use permit may be issued by the city
permitting a mobile home as defined in this chapter, to be located on any site
as defined in this chapter, provided it is connected to a city water, sewer and
electrical system as specified in this section. An applicant for a special use
permit shall file an application for such permit with the Zoning Administrator,
and then shall serve written notice whether in person or by certified mail with
return receipt requested, on the owner or owners as recorded in the office of
the County Recorder of Deeds, of all property within 500 feet in each direction
of the property for which the permit is requested. Such distance of 500 feet is
to be measured from established lot or property lines.
      (2)   Statement. The notice herein required shall contain the address of
the location for which the special use permit is requested, a brief statement
of the nature of the requested special use, the name and address of the legal
and beneficial owner of the property for which the special use is requested, a
statement that the applicant has filed an application for a special use permit,
and the date upon which application was filed. If after a bona fide effort to
determine such address by the applicant for the special use, the owner of the
property upon which the notice is served cannot be found at his or her last
known address the notice requirements of this division (AA) shall be deemed
satisfied.
      (3)   List of names. In addition to serving the notice herein required,
within 30 days of the filing the application for a special use permit, the
applicant shall furnish to the Zoning Administrator a complete list containing
the names and last known addresses of the owners of the property required to be
served, the method of service, and the name and address of the person so
served.
      (4)   Issuance of permit. Prior to the issuance of any permit for a
mobile home under this division (AA), the applicant must have written
permission for the establishment of the mobile home and the issuance of the
mobile home permit from all property owners owning any real property located
within 500 feet of the property line of the lot, parcel or tract of land on
which said mobile home is to be located.
      (5)   Hearing.
         (a)   The applicant shall also furnish a written statement certifying
that he or she has complied with the requirements of this division (AA). The
Zoning Administrator shall consider no application for a special use permit
unless the applicant furnishes the list and certificate herein required. The
Zoning Administrator shall then schedule a hearing before the City Planning and
Economic Development Commission.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator, not more than 30 days, nor less than
15 days before the hearing at which the application for a special use permit is
to be considered must send written notice, via first class mail, to the persons
appearing on the list furnished by the applicant, which notice shall contain
the time and place of the hearing, the address, the location for which the
special use permit is requested, and a brief statement of the nature of the
special use requested. In addition, the Zoning Administrator shall cause notice
to be not more than 30 days, nor less than 15 days prior to such a hearing.
      (6)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall then be held by the City
Planning and Economic Development Commission and any party may appear in
person, by agent or attorney. After the hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall
recommend whether or not the Commission should recommend approval of the
issuance of the special use permit as requested. The Commission shall then act
upon the recommendation of the Zoning Administrator, but shall not be bound by
the recommendation. The vote of the Commission shall be reported to the City
Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Council shall vote upon
the recommendations and the vote of the Council shall be final with regard to
the issuance of a special use permit.
      (7)   Fee. All fees to cover the costs of publication, postage and legal
fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant. A fee of $300 shall
accompany the application for a special use permit. The applicant, upon being
issued a special use permit, shall within a period not to exceed six months
from the date of issuance, place a mobile home upon the site or the permit
shall expire. A special use permit as described in this chapter may be
transferred to another person only upon the written consent of the City Council
prior to transfer.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-56)
   (BB)   Storing of mobile homes. No person shall store any mobile home on any
property in the city for the purpose of repairs unless a building permit is
obtained. The permit shall be valid for a period of 30 days next after the date
of issuance.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-57)
(Ord. 15-99, passed 11-9-1999; Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964) Penalty, see §
155.999
   (CC)   Inspection. No less than 30 days and not more than 60 days after a
mobile home as described in this chapter has been placed upon a lot in the
city, the City Building Inspector and the Fire Chief shall conduct a proper
inspection to verify that all requirements of this chapter have been complied
with, and shall make a report to the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-58) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
Penalty, see §
155.999
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS, EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 155.235 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The requirements and regulations specified hereinbefore in this code shall
be subject to the additional requirements, exceptions, modifications and
interpretations in the following sections.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.236 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   Height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this code shall not apply.
   (A)   Farm buildings. To barns, silos or other farm buildings or structures
on farms, provided these are not less than 50 feet from every lot line, to
church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, water towers, fire and
hose towers, masts and aerials; to parapet walls extending not more than four
feet above the limiting height of the building; however, if, in the opinion of
the Building Inspector, such structures would adversely affect adjoining or
adjacent properties, such greater height shall not be authorized except by the
Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Public assembly buildings. To places of public assembly such as
churches, schools and other permitted public and semi-public buildings, not to
exceed six stories or 75 feet provided that for each foot by which the height
of such building exceeds the maximum height otherwise permitted in the district
its side and rear yards should be increased in width or depth by an additional
foot over the side and rear yards required for the highest building otherwise
permitted in the district.
   (C)   Structures with height. To bulkheads, conveyors, derricks, elevator
penthouses, water tanks, monitors and scenery lofts; to monuments, fire towers,
hose towers, cooling towers, grain elevators, gas holders or other structures,
where the manufacturing process requires a great height. Where a permitted use
requires, greater heights than specified may be authorized by the Board of
Appeals.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.237 LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Existing lots of record. In any district where dwellings are
permitted, a one-family attached dwelling may be constructed on any lot of
official record at the time of enactment of the Zoning Code, the owner of which
does not own any adjoining property, provided that proposed yard spaces satisfy
requirements stipulated for the district in which said lot is located, or
requirements as may be modified by the Board of Appeals as set forth
hereinafter under §§
155.255 through
155.260.
   (B)   Lots unserved by sewer or water. In any district, where neither public
water supply nor public sanitary sewer is accessible, the otherwise specified
lot area and width requirements should be a minimum of 20,000 square feet, and
100 feet; provided, however, that where a public water supply system is
accessible and will be installed, these requirements shall be 10,000 square
feet, and 75 feet, respectively; provided further that the Sanitary Water
Board, State of Illinois has certified that the said areas will be large enough
to satisfy all applicable requirements concerning water supply and the disposal
of sanitary wastes.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.238 LOT AREA PER FAMILY; CORNER LOTS.
   On a corner lot for the purpose of determining the lot area per family, one-
half of the width of the abutting side street may be included in computing the
area of the lot, provided that the area gained thereby should not exceed 25% of
the lot itself.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.239 FRONT YARD EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard requirements do not apply to bay windows or balconies
occupying in the aggregate not more than one-third of the front wall; to
fences, chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, uncovered
porches or similar features not over three feet high above the average finished
grade and distant five feet from every lot line.
   (B)   In any district where the average depth of two or more existing front
yards on lots within 100 feet of the lot in question and within the same block
front is less or greater than the least front yard depth prescribed, front
yards may be varied. The depth of the front yard on such lot should not be less
than the average depth of said existing front yards or, in the case of a corner
lot, the depth of the front yard on the lot immediately adjoining; provided,
however, that the depth of a front yard on a lot in any R District shall be at
least ten feet and need not exceed 60 feet.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.240 SIDE YARD EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Along any district boundary line, any abutting side yard on a lot in
the less restricted district shall have a width equal to that required in the
more restricted district; and in a B-2 or M District, on a lot abutting a lot
in any R District, such side yard for a building higher than the limiting
height in such R District should be increased by three feet for each story over
such limiting height.
   (B)   Side yards may be reduced by 10% from the otherwise required least
width of each side yard on a lot of record at the time of enactment of this
Zoning Code is narrower than the lot width specified for the district in which
the lot is located, in the case of buildings not higher than two and one-half
stories, and in case the owner of record does not own any adjoining property;
provided, however, that no side yard should be narrower at any point than three
feet.
   (C)   Side yards may be measured to the centerline of adjoining alleys, but
in not case shall a building or structure for which a side yard is required be
erected within three feet of such alley.
   (D)   On a corner lot, the least width of a side yard along the side street
lot line shall be equal to the required front yard along the side street.
   (E)   No part of any accessory building shall be nearer a side street lot
line than the least depth of any front yard required along such side street.
   (F)   Side yards may be varied. Where the side wall of a building is not
parallel with the side lot line or is broken or otherwise irregular, in which
case the average width of the side yard shall not be less than the otherwise
required width; provided, however, that such side yard shall not be narrower at
any point than one-half of the otherwise required width, or narrower than five
feet in any case.
   (G)   Structures or projections into side yards may be permitted as follows:
fences, planting or walls not over five feet above the average natural grade;
and fire escapes, three feet from a side lot line, not more than three feet
from the building. The sum of the lengths of such projection shall not exceed
one-third of the length of the side yard:
      (1)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters and
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like, into or
over a required side yard not more than one and one-half feet; and
      (2)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar features, not
higher than the elevation of the ground story of the building and distant three
feet from a side lot line.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-6) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.241 REAR YARD EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Rear yards may be reduced. By 10% from the required least depth on a
lot which at the time of enactment of this code is less than 100 feet deep, in
the case of a building not higher than two and one-half stories, and in case
the owner of record does not own adjoining property to the rear; provided,
however, that no required rear yard shall be less than ten feet deep.
   (B)   Rear yard may be measured to the centerline of adjoining alleys. But
in no case shall a building or structure be erected within six feet of such an
alley.
   (C)   Structures or projections into rear yards may be permitted as follows.
Fences, planting or walls not over five feet above the average natural grade;
and fire escapes, six feet from the building. Bays and balconies, not more than
three feet from the building. The sum of the lengths of such projections shall
not exceed one-half of the width of the rear wall:
      (1)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels,
ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like, into or over a
required rear yard not more than one and one-half feet; and
      (2)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches or similar features not more
than ten feet into a required rear yard, nor closer than six feet of an alley
or within ten feet of a rear lot line, not an alley lot line, or within six
feet of an accessory building.
(1999 Code, § 40-16-7) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.255 GENERALLY.
   (A)   An individual will have to be charged with the responsibility of
administering the Zoning Code. This individual will also be responsible for
enforcing the code in accordance with the provision set forth in this report.
This administration and enforcement officer shall be called the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by three
copies of construction plans and two plot plans drawn to scale. This plot plan
shall show the shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact
location, size and height of the structure to be erected or altered, the
proposed number of dwelling units to occupy the structure, and any other such
information regarding the lot or neighboring lots as may be necessary for the
enforcement of the Zoning Code. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the
applicant, along with any permits and zoning certificate indicating that the
proposal meets the requirements of the Zoning Code as may be granted. The
Zoning Administrator shall keep the one copy of the construction plans and the
plot plan for his or her use and transmit the others to the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Before any building or premises or part of either is occupied, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue an order indicating that such building or
premises is in conformance with the Zoning Code. Such an order shall be called
a certificate of occupancy and should be issued only when a use or structure is
in conformance with the provisions of the Zoning Code.
   (D)   A penalty shall be set up herein whereby any persons in violations of
the provisions of the Zoning Code shall be fined upon conviction of such
offense. Such fine could be similar to fines stipulated for violation of the
community’s building and housing codes. Each day that a violation continues
should be treated as a separate offense.
   (E)   In addition to fines, the community, through its corporate attorney,
may use other remedies found in the state statutes or other legal means to curb
violations of the Zoning Code.
(1999 Code, § 40-17-a) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
Editor’s Note:
   This is an explanation of what follows in this subchapter as the enforcement
provision.
§ 155.256 ADMINISTRATOR’S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator, with the aid of the Police
Department, to enforce this Zoning Code in accordance with the administrative
provisions of this code.
(1999 Code, § 40-17-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.257 APPLICATION AND PLANS.
   Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by plans in
duplicate and plot plans drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact location, size and height of
the building or structure to be erected or altered, the existing and intended
use of each building or part, the proposed number of families or housekeeping
units, and such other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots
as may be necessary for the enforcement of this Zoning Code. One copy of such
plans should be returned to the applicant when approved by the Zoning
Administrator together with such permit as may be granted.
(1999 Code, § 40-17-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.258 STAKING PROPERTY LINES.
   Prior to building construction, stakes shall be set and should be maintained
in their proper location on the property during construction.
(1999 Code, § 40-17-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.259 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Before using any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted or enlarged in use or structure, a certificate of
occupancy shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator. Such certificate
shall show that such building or premises, or part thereof, and the proposed
use thereof conform with the provisions of this code.
(1999 Code, § 40-17-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.260 LEGAL ACTION AGAINST VIOLATOR.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
issued in violation of the provisions of this code, the City Attorney, in
addition to other remedies under the state statutes, should be authorized to
institute an action to enjoin, or any other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent such erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use.
(1999 Code, § 40-17-6) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 155.275 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals is herewith created, with members appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. Such appointments
shall be made in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq., Illinois Municipal
Code, which is as follows: the Board of Appeals shall consist of seven members
to serve respectively for a term of five years.
   (B)   The members appointed to the Board of Appeals shall be one from each
of the four wards existing within the city limits, with the remaining three
appointed members to be from the city at large, and with one of the city at
large members to be designated as Chairperson of the Board of Appeals at the
time of the appointment. Their successors to be so appointed to the succeeding
five-year terms on the Board.
   (C)   At least two members of the Board of Appeals shall also be members of
the City Plan Commission. This will allow the two bodies to function more
efficiently and allow the free flow of information between the two.
   (D)   Rules and procedures for the Board of Appeals are to be those found in
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3, which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof.
(1999 Code, § 40-18-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.276 APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Applications to the Board should be accompanied by a fee to defray the
cost of publishing the notice of public hearing in a newspaper or posting such
a notice. Such application shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, who
acts as the Board’s Secretary.
   (B)   A reasonable time for the hearing shall be fixed and it is recommended
that 15-days’ notice of time and place of such hearing be given a newspaper or
posted within the city in accordance with the state statutes.
(1999 Code, § 40-18-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
Editor’s note:
   Notice shall be published not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior
to the hearing.
§ 155.277 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The powers of the Board are as follows.
   (A)   Special uses. Special exception and interpretation of the zoning map.
The Board shall have the power to hear and decide, in accordance with the
provisions of this report, requests or applications for special exceptions and
the power to interpret the zoning district map.
      (1)   Nonconforming use. The Board shall decide whether or not a proposed
substitution of one nonconforming use for another is of the same or more
restricted classification as the existing nonconforming use.
      (2)   Issue temporary use permits. Issue permits for temporary use of
land or building in districts where such use does not conform. Such permits
shall be revocable and not extend for more than 12 months.
      (3)   Certain industries in the M-2 Districts. In authorizing certain
industries under §
155.180, the Board shall give regard to the nature and condition of all
adjacent uses and structures. Before allowing such use, the Board shall also
consider where the proposed use would be a nuisance to the surrounding
neighborhood. In granting such requests, the Board may also find it necessary
to require the requirements and conditions, in addition to those stipulated in
this code.
      (4)   Interpretation of map. There may be times when street or lot layout
on the ground differs from the zoning map and the Board should, after notice to
the owners of affected property, interpret the map to carry out the intent and
purpose of the Zoning Code.
   (B)   Administrative review and variances coming from action of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (1)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where someone
feels the Zoning Administrator has been in error in the enforcement of the
Zoning Code.
      (2)   Variances.
         (a)   The Board may grant relief from the strict terms of the Zoning
Code, owing to special conditions, where such terms will result in unnecessary
hardship to the applicant. Such relief should only be granted where topographic
conditions, or other situations or conditions on a piece of property exist or
where the use or development of adjacent property makes the literal enforcement
of the provisions of the Zoning Code a hardship on the owner of the property.
In granting such a variance, the Board of Appeals may attach conditions to
assure that the spirit and intent of the code are carried out.
         (b)   The Board of Appeals shall not grant a variance to the
requirements of the code, unless:
            1.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the property in question or to the intended use of the
property that do not apply generally to other properties class of uses in the
same zoning district;
            2.   Such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other properties in the same
zoning district and in the vicinity; and
            3.   The authorizing of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and will not materially impair the purposes of
the Zoning Code or the public interest.
         (c)   The Board should only grant a variance on a specific piece of
property. It should make sure that any variances granted are not of such a
recurring nature to warrant the changing of the text of the Zoning Code. If the
Board is confronted by many similar requests for variances, it shall recommend
to the governing body that an amendment to the code may be needed.
(1999 Code, § 40-18-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.278 ACTION OF THE BOARD.
   In exercising its powers, the Board may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, the action of the Zoning Administrator and to that end has all the powers
of the Zoning Administration in appeal cases.
(1999 Code, § 40-18-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.279 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Review is provided for under 65 ILCS 5/11-13-13, which states all final
administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals under 65 ILCS 5/11-13-13 shall
be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et
seq., the Administrative Review Law, which is defined as being a person, body
of persons, group, officers, board, bureau, commission or department (other
than a court, judge or magistrate) of the state, or of any political
subdivision thereof or municipal corporation therein, having power under law to
make administrative decisions, which, in the case of this code, means the City
Council.
(1999 Code, § 40-18-5) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.290 AMENDMENTS.
   The corporate authorities may from time to time amend the zoning map or
regulations set forth in the Zoning Code. Such amendments must be in accordance
with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 40-19-1) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.291 VOTE REQUIRED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   In the case of a recommendation of denial by the Plan Commission, or if a
written protest against a proposed change in the boundaries of a district is
made by 20% of the neighboring property owners, the amendment shall not be
passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
(1999 Code, § 40-19-2) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.292 AMENDMENTS BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   Any person desiring a change in zoning of property should make application
or introduce an ordinance for such purpose. Such person should also provide the
names and addresses of all property owners within 150 feet of any property
proposed to be changed. The application for an amendment should be accompanied
by a fee to defray the cost of processing the application. The fee may be
refunded if the legal notice has not been published or posted.
(1999 Code, § 40-19-3) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.293 FAILURE TO NOTIFY.
   The failure to notify property owners shall not invalidate an amendment,
provided such failure was not intentional.
(1999 Code, § 40-19-4) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or resist the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, and
not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues shall be deemed and constitute an
additional violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The proper authorities of the city, in addition to any other remedies
provided herein, may institute and appropriate actions or proceedings in any
court having jurisdiction to prevent the violation of this chapter or refusal
to comply with this chapter, any person found to be in violation hereof, shall
be responsible for and pay all costs and expenses, including legal fees
incurred by the city in enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 40-15-59) (Ord. 334, passed 10-26-1964; Ord. 11-94, passed 5-25-
1994)
CHAPTER 156: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED DWELLINGS
Section
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Conflict with other ordinances
   
156.03   Conflict of permits and licenses
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Applicability to all dwellings
   
156.06   Mandatory non-owner occupied registration
   
156.07   Mandatory non-owner occupied inspection
   
156.08   Standards for exterior property areas
   
156.09   Standards for maintenance of dwellings
   
156.10   Standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
156.11   Standards for light, ventilation and heating
   
156.12   Standards for space
   
156.13   Standards for rooming houses
   
156.14   Standards for security
   
156.15   Primary responsibilities
   
156.16   Enforcement
   
156.17   Unlawful interruption of tenant occupancy
   
156.18   Nonliability of city officials
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the
registration and inspection of non-owner occupied dwellings so as to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the people of the city. It is the intent of
this City Council that each provision of this chapter shall be liberally
constructed to effectuate the purposes as stated above.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to abolish or impair existing
remedies of the city or its officers or agents relating to the removal or
demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous, unsafe or
unsanitary or the abatement of any nuisance.
   (C)   The general objectives include, among others, the following specific
purposes;
      (1)   To protect the character and stability of residential areas within
the city;
      (2)   To provide minimum standards for heating and sanitary equipment
necessary to the health and safety of occupants of dwellings within the city;
      (3)   To provide facilities for light and ventilation, necessary to
health and safety of occupants of buildings within the city;
      (4)   To prevent additions or alterations to existing dwellings that
would be injurious to the life, health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants of such dwellings or neighboring properties;
      (5)   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings;
      (6)   To prohibit unsuitable residential housing;
      (7)   To preserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
      (8)   To fix responsibility and duties of owners, operators, agents, and
occupants of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, multiple dwellings, and
rooming units unfit for human habitation; and
      (9)   To fix fines and other penalties for the violations declared to be
remedial and essential to the public interest.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.02 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, electrical, plumbing, fire, safety,
or health ordinance, or regulation of the city regulating existing buildings,
the provision which established the most restrictive standard shall prevail,
except that the provisions of this chapter shall, with regard to non-owner
occupied dwellings, supersede the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.03 CONFLICTS OF PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   All departments and officials of the city having the duty or authority to
issue permits or licenses in regard to the construction, installation, or
repair of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units, multiple
dwellings, equipment, or facilities, shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter and no such permit or license shall be issued, if such would be in
conflict with this chapter. Any permit not authorized to be issued shall be
subject to revocation.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure which is not used and not intended
to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants and which is located on
the same premises as a principal structure and the use of such accessory
structure is incidental to the principal structure.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Inspector of the city.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building partly underground by having more than
half its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining
ground.
   BATHROOM. Enclosed space containing one or more bathtubs, showers, or both,
and which may also include toilets, lavatories, or fixtures serving similar
purposes.
   BUILDING. A combination of any materials, whether portable or fixed, having
a roof to form a structure affording shelter for persons, animals or property.
The word "building" shall be construed, when used herein as though followed by
the words "or parts thereof unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
   CYLINDER. The part of a lock set that has an entrance for the key which
thereby activates the locking mechanism.
   CYLINDER GUARD. A hardened ring surrounding the exposed portion of the lock
cylinder or other device which is so fastened as to protect the cylinder from
wrenching, prying, cutting or pulling at attack tools.
   DEAD BOLT LOCK. A locking device with a bolt that has no automatic spring
action and which is operated manually by a key cylinder on its exterior side
and by a knob, thumb turn, or lever on its interior side, and a bolt that is
positively held fast when in the projected position (also known as deadlock).
   DORMITORY. A building, not open to transients, where lodging is provided for
ten or more non-family persons, and no kitchen facilities other than one
central kitchen facility, are provided any dwelling unit occupied by persons
other than management personnel.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used, designed, or intended
to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that "temporary
housing" as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, designed, or intended
to be used for living, sleeping, working, and eating.
   EGRESS. Arrangements and openings to assure a safe means of exit from
buildings.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. Open spaces on the premises and vacant open space
on adjacent premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborages; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the proper authorities.
   FLOOR AREA. The total horizontal area of habitable space.
   FLUSH OR SURFACE BOLT. A deadlock normally used on inactive door(s) that is
attached to the top and bottom and/or side of the door and engages in the frame
and/or base of the door.
   GARBAGE. Anything that may decompose and become offensive or dangerous to
health, including, but not limited to, waste products resulting from the
handling, storage, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GRADE (GROUND LEVEL). The average of the finished ground level. In case
walls are parallel to and within five feet of a sidewalk, the said finished
ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries, and utility rooms of
less than 50 square feet, foyers, or communicating corridors, stairways,
closets, storage spaces, and workshops, hobby and recreation areas below ground
level or in attics.
   HOOK OR EXPANDING BOLT. A dead bolt lock in which the bolt or bolts
interlock with the strike plate into which the bolt or bolts are projected,
attached to the door, window or other access points of a building or structure
which is designed to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the building or
structure through the door, window, or other access point on which the locking
device is activated.
   HOT WATER. Water heated to a temperature of not less than 100°F at the
outlet.
   HOTEL AND MOTEL. See definition of ROOMING HOUSE.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, multiple dwelling, rooming unit, or premises, of insects,
rodents, vermin and other pests.
   KITCHEN. Any room containing any or all of the following equipment, or any
area of a room within three feet of such equipment: sink or other device for
dishwashing, stove or other device for cooking, refrigerator or other device
for cold storage of food, cabinets or shelves for storage or cooking equipment
and utensils, and counter or table for food preparation.
   LEAD BEARING SUBSTANCE. Any paint, plaster, or other material or substance
containing more than 0.6% by weight (calculated as lead metal) in the total
nonvolatile content of liquid paints, or in the dried film of paint previously
applied.
   LET. Any lease, agreement or arrangement permitting occupancy or use; and
also any contract for deed, or agreement to purchase, or unrecorded deed
permitting occupancy or use of a dwelling unit which is not actually receiving
the general homestead exemption from taxation under 35 ILCS 200/15-175 during
said occupancy or use.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling units",
"rooming units", "premises", "structure" are used in this chapter, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof.
Words used in the singular include the plural, and in the plural the singular,
the masculine gender includes the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
   MOBILE HOMES. A factory assembled, movable dwelling designed and constructed
to be towed on its chassis, comprised of frame wheels, to be used without a
permanent foundation, and distinguishable from other types of dwellings in that
the standards to which it is built include provisions for its mobility on that
chassis as a vehicle. Removal of the tongue, wheels, or hitch, or placement of
the structure upon a permanent foundation shall not be considered in
determining whether or not a structure is a mobile home.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit and/
or rooming unit.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming units.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a multiple dwelling,
hotel, motel or rooming house, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let
or offered for occupancy.
   ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS. A temperature 15°F (-9.4°C) above the lowest
recorded temperature in the city for the prior ten-year period.
   OWNER. Any person or entity who shall have a legal, equitable or beneficial
interest in the subject real estate, or any improvements thereto; or a
reversionary leasehold interest in the subject real estate, or any improvements
thereto; or a capacity to manage the subject real estate or any improvements
thereto pursuant to an order of court, power, or agreement.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
   PLUMBING. All of the following facilities and equipment: gas pipes, gas
burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, installed
clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other similar
equipment and fixtures, and the installation thereof, together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   POTABLE WATER. Water duly approved as satisfactory and safe for drinking by
the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including any buildings or
structures thereon.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewerage system operated by the city and available for
public use.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or part of a dwelling containing one or more
rooming units in which space is rented by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not the husband or wife, father or mother, son or
daughter, grandparent or grandchild, brother or sister, uncle or aunt, nephew
or niece or cousin of the first degree, of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms intended to be used for living or
sleeping but not for cooking purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bath, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or the water carried waste from any other fixture or equipment
or machine.
   SINGLE CYLINDER LOCKING DEVICE. A bolt that is activated on its exterior
side by a key and on its interior side by a knob, thumb rum, lever or similar
mechanism.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of any materials, whether fixed or portable,
forming construction, including buildings.
   SUPPLIED FACILITIES. Facilities paid for, furnished or provided by, or under
the control of the owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, recreational vehicle as defined by 625 ILCS or
other structure used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable
and which is not attached to the ground, to another structure or, to any
utility system for more than 15 consecutive days or 30 days during any calendar
year.
   THROW. The outward movement of a bolt or spring bolt which is measured by
the distance which such a bolt travels, i.e., when the bolt or spring bolt is
moved from the open position to the locked position (extended), it is said to
have been thrown.
   VENTILATION. Supply and removal of air to and from any space by natural or
mechanical means.
   VERMIN HARBORAGE. Any place where rats, mice, raccoon, opossum, groundhog,
stray cats or other animals can live, nest or find shelter.
   VERMIN PROOFING. A form of construction which will prevent the ingress or
egress of vermin to or from a given space or building, or gaining access to
food, water, or vermin harborage. It consists of the closing and keeping closed
of every opening in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and interior
walls, ground or first floors, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings, and
other places that may be reached and entered by vermin by climbing, burrowing
or other methods, by the use of materials impervious to vermin gnawing and
other methods approved by the appropriate authority.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.05 APPLICABILITY TO ALL DWELLINGS.
   Each building or premises within the geographical boundaries or jurisdiction
of the city, used, designed, or intended to be used for any non-owner occupied
dwelling purpose, shall, subject to the provisions of this chapter, comply with
the provisions of this chapter, irrespective of when such building shall have
been constructed, altered or repaired; and irrespective of any permit or
license which shall have been issued for that construction or repair of the
building, or for the installation or repair of equipment or of the facilities
prior to the effective date of this chapter. This chapter establishes minimum
standards required to be met at all times for the use of dwellings, building
facilities, and equipment.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.06 MANDATORY NON-OWNER OCCUPIED REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required. It shall be unlawful for any person,
individual, trust, partnership, association, corporation or other legal entity
to lease or allow occupancy of any "rental dwelling unit", as defined
hereafter, for any consideration within the geographical boundaries or
jurisdictional limits of the city without first registering such dwelling with
the city as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Registration application. Every registration application shall be
filed with the city on a prescribed form. The form will be completed and will
be filed along with the mandatory registration fee and first time inspection
fee if applicable (division (E) of this section).
   (C)   Inspection. No inspection of a non-owner occupied dwelling may take
place unless the property to be inspected is registered with the city.
   (D)   Information at registration. The city will maintain records of the
registration which shall include;
      (1)   Property location and description;
      (2)   Property owner's name and contact information;
      (3)   Property Manager's name and contact information;
      (4)   Copy of the Property Manager's Illinois Real Estate License,
Broker’s License, or Leasing Agent License if so required by the Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation;
      (5)   Copy of the lease agreement to be used; and
      (6)   Any other document the city may reasonably require.
   (E)   Registration fee and validity. The registration fee shall be $50 per
building and is valid for one year from the time of issuance. No registration
shall be valid for a period exceeding one year. Failure to register a non-owner
occupied dwelling by the owner prior to executing a lease agreement or contract
for deed agreement may result in a minimum fine of not less than $250 and no
more than $750.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.07 MANDATORY NON-OWNER OCCUPIED INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection required.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall lease, let, or
otherwise permit occupancy of any rental dwelling within the geographical
boundary or jurisdiction of the city, unless the rental dwelling has been
inspected by an authorized the city Building Inspector and an occupancy permit
has been issued for the property.
      (2)   Any person who leases to another any rental dwelling on or before
the effective date of this chapter may continue leasing said rental dwelling
without an inspection and a certificate of occupancy for a period of one year
from the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Inspections authorized.
      (1)   The Johnston City Building Inspector is hereby authorized to
conduct inspections of any and all rental dwellings, or units thereof, within
the city to determine compliance with this code, including this chapter.
      (2)   The employees and agents as named by the city or Building Inspector
are hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey all rental dwellings within
the city pursuant to access as stated in this chapter.
   (C)   Frequency, access and notice of inspection.
      (1)   All rental dwellings shall be inspected by the Building Inspector
or employees or agents of the Building Inspector at least once every year and
prior to the execution of a new agreement. Inspections may occur more
frequently provided there is:
         (a)   Reasonable suspicion to believe that there exists within such
rental dwelling conditions which present a threat to the health, safety,
welfare or general comfort of the resident(s) of such rental dwelling; or
         (b)   A complaint lodged by the resident(s) of the rental dwelling to
be inspected; or
         (c)   A request made by a prospective resident accompanied by the
consent of the owner (or owner's agent) of the rental dwelling to be inspected;
or
         (d)   A request made by the owner or owner's agent.
      (2)   Every owner or owner's agent of any rental dwelling shall provide
access to such rental dwelling, or any unit thereof, to the employees or agents
of the Building Inspector for purposes of inspecting the rental dwelling or
unit thereof for compliance with all applicable standards and regulations set
forth in this code, as amended. Either the owner, the owner's agent, or the
occupant shall be offered the opportunity to accompany the inspector during the
inspection.
      (3)   Notice shall be given to the owner or the owner's agent and the
occupant of the rental dwelling or unit thereof at least seven days in advance
of such inspection except in those situations described in division (C)(1) of
this section.
      (4)   Notice of inspection shall be provided to the owner, owner's agent
and occupant and may consist of a letter sent by first class mail, personal
service, telephone call, e-mail upon an owner's or occupant's request or, for
occupants only, the posting of a door hanger upon the doorknob of the rental
dwelling or unit thereof.
      (5)   The form of notice shall be given at the city's sole discretion
provided the form used substantially achieves the purpose of this "notice"
requirement. Where a rental dwelling or unit thereof is occupied by more than
one person, notice to one occupant of each dwelling unit shall be deemed notice
to all occupants of a dwelling unit.
      (6)   Notice of inspection to which an owner or occupant is entitled may
be waived by said owner or occupant or agent thereof.
   (D)   Identification of rental dwelling and designation of owner's agent.
      (1)   Any person owning, managing, or supervising any rental dwelling
shall with 90 days of the effective date hereof or within 30 days of assuming
ownership, management or supervision of any rental dwelling, whichever date is
later, inform the city so that the property registration is current.
      (2)   Every owner of any rental dwelling, or unit thereof, who does not
reside on the premises of such rental dwelling shall appoint and designate an
individual to act as an agent in his behalf. Every owner shall notify, in
writing, the city, and each occupant of the rental dwelling, of the name,
address and telephone number of the agent. Such written notice shall contain
the signature of the agent accepting appointment and designation as agent of
the owner.
      (3)   Any individual, who is appointed and designated as agent of the
owner, shall reside within Williamson County, Illinois, or within a county
which adjoins Williamson County, Illinois. An owner of a rental dwelling may
act as his own agent provided he meets the residency requirements set forth
herein.
   (E)   Occupants to provide access for inspections.
      (1)   Each and every occupant of a rental dwelling shall give the owner
thereof, his agent, or employees, access to the rental dwelling, or unit
thereof under their control, to conduct inspections authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   Each and every occupant of a rental dwelling shall give the owner
thereof, or his agent or his employees, access to any part of such rental
dwelling at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this
chapter or with any standard regulation set forth in this code, as amended.
   (F)   Fees. A fee of $25 per inspection, per dwelling unit, shall be
assessed against the owner for inspection of any rental dwelling unit pursuant
to this chapter. For owners with multiple dwelling units, a maximum fee of $150
per parcel for multi-unit dwellings will be assessed (example: a four unit
building - $100 total, Greater than six units on one parcel will be capped at a
maximum of $150). Notice of the fee and mandatory inspection shall be served
upon the owner by regular mail. The fee must be paid to the city in full prior
to scheduling the mandatory inspection of the non-owner occupied dwelling. Once
the inspection is complete and the dwelling is compliant with this chapter, the
Building Inspector shall issue an occupancy permit.
   (G)   Occupancy permit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy and unlawful for any
owner or agent to allow another person to occupy any rental dwelling unit
unless the Building Inspector has issued a valid occupancy permit.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall not issue an occupancy permit until a
city authorized inspector has inspected the dwelling unit and the dwelling unit
conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon a satisfactory inspection, the Building Inspector shall issue
an occupancy permit and provide a copy to the city to be kept with the property
registration.
      (4)   An occupancy permit shall be valid for one year from date of
issuance unless sooner revoked; the existence of an occupancy permit for a
dwelling unit shall not prevent inspection of a dwelling unit.
   (H)   Temporary occupancy permit.
      (1)   A rental dwelling or unit therein not in full compliance with this
chapter may be occupied while repairs are being made if the Building Inspector
has issued a temporary occupancy permit.
      (2)   No temporary occupancy permit shall be issued until the Building
Inspector has inspected the dwelling unit and determined that the occupancy
thereof does not constitute a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants as indicated by the inspection checklist. A temporary occupancy
permit shall be valid for up to 30 days, and may be renewed only once upon
written request.
   (I)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Building Inspector, upon five-day notice to the owner and
occupant in writing, may revoke any occupancy permit or temporary occupancy
permit if:
         (a)   The Building Inspector determines that material information
contained in the application for said permit is false;
         (b)   The occupant refuses to allow an authorized inspection of the
premises at any time;
         (c)   The work authorized by a temporary occupancy permit is not
proceeding;
         (d)   The occupant or owner fails to comply with a corrective action
order or fails to maintain the property in compliance with this chapter; or
         (e)   The permit was issued in error by the Building Inspector.
      (2)   The five-day notice of revocation shall be served in the same
manner as required for a corrective action order. During the five-day period
the applicant or current permit holder may provide such information as desired
by the applicant or permit holder to the Building and Inspection Department and
fire department for consideration by the building and inspection department in
the decision to revoke.
   (J)   Utilities not to be provided. The city may refuse to provide and/or
may disconnect water and sewer service until or unless a valid occupancy or
temporary occupancy permit is obtained and presented by the owner to the city's
Water Department.
   (K)   Corrective action order.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that any occupancy or
any dwelling unit, accessory structure, or other portion of premises is in
violation of this chapter, it shall so notify the owner and/or occupant in
writing, and order appropriate corrective action.
      (2)   Contents of order. The order to take corrective action(s) shall
include the following information:
         (a)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
         (b)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
         (c)   A statement of the remedial action (repairs, reduced number of
occupants, etc.) necessary to effect compliance;
         (d)   The date (at least five days unless an emergency condition) by
which the violation must be corrected; or
         (e)   A statement that if the violation is not corrected, the
occupancy permit may be revoked, a complaint for violation issued, and/or the
property may be declared unfit for human habitation with attendant
consequences. If a corrective action order has been served as provided herein,
no additional notice of revocation is required to be given.
   (L)   Service of order. The corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner, agent, or occupant if it is served upon each personally
or sent by registered or certified mail to the last known address of each with
service being effective upon deposit in the mail posted in a conspicuous place
on or about the dwelling or premises.
   (M)   Access by owner or operator.
      (1)   The occupant(s) of every dwelling unit shall give the owner or
operator, or his agent or employee, free access thereto at any reasonable time
in order to allow him to make any inspection, alteration, maintenance, or
repair necessary to effect compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to occupy or let or hold out to
another for occupancy any dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein,
where such dwelling unit does not comply with the steps required by the
corrective action order.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.08 STANDARDS FOR EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling
or dwelling unit, within the jurisdiction of the city, which does not comply
with the following requirements:
   (A)   Hazards. Exterior property areas shall be free from conditions which
might create a health, accident or fire hazard, or which might endanger the
public welfare, including, but not limited to, holes and excavations, sharp
protrusions, barbed wire (unless six feet above the ground atop a chain-link,
solid, or other approved fence), sheer embankments, inoperative or abandoned
vehicles or machinery, unused household goods or appliances and other objects
or materials. Walks, steps, and driveways that contain holes or tripping
hazards shall be filled, repaired, or replaced as necessary. Open wells,
cesspools, septic tanks or cisterns shall be kept securely closed if in
approved use. If they are not in approved use, they must be filled with natural
soil. No unlicensed, inoperable, junk, or nuisance motor vehicle nor other
nuisance as defined within city ordinances §§
153.105 through
153.115.
   (B)   Rubbish and garbage. Disposal of rubbish and other refuse shall be
done in accordance with all regulations of the city. The property shall be free
of accumulating rubbish and garbage.
   (C)   Fences. All fences provided by the owner or agent on the premises and/
or all fences erected by an occupant shall be constructed of manufactured metal
fencing material, wood, masonry or other material. Such fences shall be
maintained in good condition. Wood materials, other than decay resistant wood,
shall be protected against decay by use of paint or other preservative. Any
paint or other protective material must be maintained free of deterioration, in
sound condition and good repair. The permissible height and other
characteristics of all fences shall conform to the appropriate statutes,
ordinances and regulations of the city and state. Wherever any egress from the
dwelling opens into the fenced area, there shall be a means of egress from the
premises to any public way adjacent thereto.
   (D)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures present or provided by the
owner, agent or tenant occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be
structurally sound, and be maintained in good repair and free from insects and
rats, or such structures shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of
such structure shall be made weather resistant through the use of decay
resistant materials or the use of paint or other preservatives. Paint or other
protective coverings must be maintained free of deterioration, in sound
condition and good repair.
   (E)   Sewage. Sewage must be discharged into a public sewer system or if
otherwise permitted by the revised code of ordinances into an approved septic
tank. Discharge of inadequately treated sewage shall not be permitted upon the
surface of the ground or into any natural or artificial drainage-way.
   (F)   Weeds. Exterior property areas shall be kept free of all weeds,
plants, or trees which are noxious and or could be considered detrimental to
the public health, such weeds include but are not limited to, ragweed, poison
ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac.
   (G)   Insect and vermin. Where insect or vermin breeding areas, harborage,
or infestation exist, the same shall be eliminated.
      (1)   Upon discovery of insect or vermin breeding areas, harborage, or
infestations, the inspector will take leave from such inspection to allow for
remedial action by the owner or property manager.
      (2)   If the inspector is notified within 30 days that the breeding
areas, harborage, or infestations have been eliminated then the inspector will
complete the inspection promptly without an additional inspection fee.
      (3)   An additional fee of $25 will be assessed for each additional visit
by the inspector after the second inspection.
      (4)   If a tenant is residing in the residence subject to inspection,
satisfactory remedial action must be taken within 30 days of the initial
inspection. Failure to take satisfactory remedial action will result in a
minimum fine of not less than $250 and no more than $750.
   (H)   Storage of materials. In the event that occupancy usages would result
in stacking or piling materials, the materials shall be so arranged as to
prohibit the creation of a vermin harborage area. Such shall be accomplished by
orderly stacking and elevating so that there will be at least a 12-inch opening
between the material and the ground level. No stacking or piling of material
shall take place against the exterior walls of the structure.
   (I)   Standing water. Water shall not be permitted to accumulate or stand on
the premises so as to create any stagnant condition, mosquito breeding ground,
offensive smell, unsightly condition, unsafe or hazardous condition or other
condition potentially harmful to the public health or safety.
   (J)   Outdoor spas, hot tubs, swimming pools. All outdoor spas, and hot tubs
must be securely enclosed in a solid, chain link, or other approved fence not
less than four feet in height with a self-closing and self-latching gate or
locked gate. Fencing or barriers for swimming pools and wading pools shall
comply with the applicable building and residential codes adopted by the city.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.09 STANDARDS FOR MAINTENANCE OF DWELLINGS.
   No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling
or dwelling unit within the geographical boundaries or jurisdiction of the city
which does not comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Foundations, walls and roofs. Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling
and roof shall be reasonably weather-tight, and vermin-proof, shall afford
privacy, and shall be kept in good repair.
      (1)   Foundation. The foundation elements shall adequately support the
building at all points; floors shall be free of hazard;
      (2)   Exterior walls. Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose or rotting boards and timbers, and any other conditions which might admit
vermin, rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls, or the interior
spaces of the dwelling. Exterior surface materials shall be protected from the
elements and decay by paint or other protective covering or treatment, when
required to prevent deterioration. Any paint or other protective materials must
be maintained free of deterioration, in sound condition and good repair.
      (3)   Interior walls. Every interior wall shall be free of holes and
large cracks, loose plaster and other structural material.
      (4)   Roofs. The roof shall be tight and shall have no defects which
admit rain. All openings for pipes, conduits and other utility services
accessible to vermin shall be closed solidly for the full thickness of the
wall, floor, roof, etc., with an approved vermin-proof material or fitted with
a collar or shield, securely fastened to the wall or floor, of not less than
24-gauge galvanized sheet metal or other approved materials, extending at least
three inches beyond all sides of the opening.
   (B)   Lead bearing substances. No person shall sell, use, or apply any
substance in which the total nonvolatile ingredients contain more than 0.6% of
lead, by weight, calculated as metallic lead in or upon any exposed interior
surface of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or temporary housing, nor in or upon any
fixture or other object used, installed or located in or upon such surface or
intended to be so used, installed or located. Upon notice from the city of the
existence of any such substances herein prohibited, it shall be the
responsibility for the owner to remove or to securely and permanently cover
such surfaces within 14 days after the receipt of such notice, unless the
building inspector shall, for good cause shown, grant in writing an additional
period of time to complete such removal or covering.
   (C)   Windows, exterior doors and basement hatchways. Every window, exterior
door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably watertight, and vermin-proof;
and shall be kept in good working condition and good repair. Every opening
located at or within one and one-half feet of ground level which might provide
an entry for vermin, shall be adequately covered with screening or some other
device so as to effectively prevent the entrance of vermin, but so as not to
prevent emergency egress where such egress is appropriate.
   (D)   Stairs and porches. Every inside and outside stair, every porch and
every appurtenance to any of the foregoing shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and all of
the aforesaid shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every inside
and outside stair or step shall have uniform risers and uniform treads.
   (E)   Handrails. Structurally sound handrails shall be provided on any steps
containing three risers or more. If steps are not enclosed, handrails and
balusters spaced no more than four inches apart shall be provided. Porches and
balconies located more than three feet higher than the adjacent area shall have
structurally sound protective handrails 30 inches to 36 inches high and, if
unenclosed, balusters spaced no more than four inches apart shall also be
provided.
   (F)   Chimneys, flues, and vents. All chimneys, flues, and vents on every
structure used for human habitation shall be structurally sound, free from
defects and capable of performing the function for which the same are designed
or used. Each shall have sufficient draft to develop the rated output of the
equipment. Chimneys, flues, gas vents and their supports shall be structurally
safe, durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue
gasses or shall be rendered functionally unusable by interior fireplaces and
all other heating facilities as provided within the fire code of the city.
   (G)   Rubbish and garbage. The interior of every structure used for human
habitation shall be maintained free from rubbish and garbage that might become
a health, accident or fire hazard.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.10 STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling
or dwelling unit intended for the purposes of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Kitchen equipment. A room or portion of a room in which food may be
prepared and/or cooked, such room or portion thereof having adequate
circulation area and being equipped with the following minimum equipment:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to
a water and sewerage system in accordance with the applicable ordinances of the
city and the statutes of the state;
      (2)   Cabinets or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and cooking
equipment and utensils and of food that does not under ordinary summer
conditions require refrigeration for safekeeping;
      (3)   A counter or table for food preparation;
      (4)   A stove or similar device for cooking food and a refrigerator or
similar device for the safe storage of food at temperatures less than 50°F but
more than 32°F under ordinary maximum summer conditions must be provided by the
owner or occupant. All must be properly installed with all necessary
connections for safe, sanitary and efficient operation. No stove, refrigerator
or similar devices aforesaid need be installed, however, in any dwelling unit
that is not occupied if sufficient space and adequate connections are provided
so that the same may be installed immediately by owner or occupant upon any
occupancy of such dwelling or dwelling unit; and
      (5)   All of the foregoing equipment shall be of sufficient size and
design so as to be adequate for the permissible occupancy of the dwelling or
dwelling unit and all shall have surfaces that are easily cleaned and that will
not impart any toxic or harmful effect to food.
   (B)   Toilet facilities. A room affording privacy to a person within said
room and which is equipped with a flush water closet and lavatory basin, both
in good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewage system
in accordance with the applicable ordinances to the city and the statutes of
the state.
   (C)   Bathing facilities. A room which affords privacy to a person within
said room and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewage system in accordance
with the applicable ordinances of the city and Illinois statutes. The room
containing the toilet facilities required by division (B) of this section and
the room containing the bathing facilities required by the provisions of this
section may be one and the same room.
   (D)   Water supply. Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower required under the provisions of this chapter shall be properly
connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (E)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling unit shall have water heating
facilities which are properly installed and connected and are capable of
heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, tub or shower at a
temperature of not less than 120°F.
   (F)   Garbage storage facilities. Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
garbage storage containers. Garbage shall be placed in containers with tightly
fitted lids. Containers shall not be located in such a manner to be a visually
offensive, health threat, or nuisance due to the blowing of debris from
containers by the wind, odors from the container or for any other reason.
Containers, except on the day of pick up shall be situated within an enclosed
building or shall be situated immediately adjacent to a building; containers
shall not be placed or situated adjacent to any street or alley or within any
yard, except as herein provided. In the event, a dumpster or other community
container is provided for the temporary storage of garbage prior to disposal
such dumpster or community container shall be enclosed within a building, or
shall be enclosed by a solid, six-foot screening device such as a fence or wall
so as to be completely concealed on three sides, with only one side open for
accessibility by a garbage collection crew.
   (G)   Rubbish storage. No rubbish shall be stored or placed upon any
premises or within any dwelling unit, except rubbish may be temporarily placed
within containers with tightly fitted lids or inside an accessory structure in
a manner such that the rubbish creates no nuisance, fire hazard, vermin
harborage, or other danger.
   (H)   Egress requirements. Every dwelling unit shall have at least one
unobstructed means of egress that leads to a public street or alley either
directly or through a court or yard.
   (I)   Passage to a dwelling unit's exit(s) shall not lead through any other
dwelling unit or through a space that might reasonably be locked by anyone who
is not a member of the household. As any basement bedroom shall have a minimum
of two exits, if one exit is a window it shall be at least 5.7 square feet of
clear opening and no more than 44 inches above the floor.
   (J)   (1)   Medication and poison storage facilities. Each dwelling unit
shall provide for the safe storage of medications and household poisons. Each
cabinet or storage facility used for medications or household poisons shall
have an approved child resistant locking device if any part of the storage area
of said cabinet or storage facility is less than four feet in height above the
floor. The requirement to provide approved child resistant locking devices
shall be the sole responsibility of the owner unless the written lease of the
owner with a tenant requires the tenant to obtain, install and maintain said
approved child resistant locking devices during the entire term of the lease;
in the event it is the tenant's primary responsibility to provide approved
child resistant locking devices, then said locking devices shall be installed
within 48 hours of the tenant entering into possession of the dwelling unit.
      (2)   The following language within a lease shall be sufficient to place
the primary responsibility upon the tenant to provide child resistant locking
devices:
"Within 48 hours of the tenant assuming occupancy of the leased premises,
tenant shall install, and shall thereafter maintain daring the lease term,
approved child resistant locking devices for each cabinet or storage facility
used for storage of medications or household poisons having any storage area
less than four feet in height above the floor."
   (K)   Locks. No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling units unless all exterior doors of the dwelling or dwelling unit are
equipped with safe, functional locking devices, and are further made secure.
   (L)   Smoke detectors. All dwellings and dwelling units, shall have an
operable smoke detector in the immediate area of the bedrooms. Every dwelling
unit shall be equipped with a properly installed smoke alarm on each story of
the dwelling unit and within 12 feet of each sleeping room area, which detector
shall comply with the applicable codes of the city and with the statutes of the
state of Illinois.
   (M)   Carbon monoxide detectors. Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with
a properly- installed carbon monoxide detector on each story of the dwelling
unit and within 12 feet of each sleeping room area, which detector shall comply
with the applicable articles of the city and with the statutes of the state of
Illinois.
   (N)   Plumbing. Every dwelling unit shall have properly installed sewer
lines, water lines, plumbing fixtures, vents, and drains all of which shall be
maintained free from obstructions, leaks, or defects so as to prevent
structural deterioration or health hazards. All plumbing shall comply with the
state of Illinois plumbing code and the applicable ordinances of the city.
   (O)   Stairway and porches. Every stairway, inside or outside a dwelling,
and every porch shall be kept in a safe condition, free of deterioration, and
in sound repair. Every open stairwell and every flight of stairs and every
porch shall comply with the applicable city ordinances.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.11 STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING.
   No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling
or dwelling unit intended for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Lighting.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing outdoors or artificial lighting capable of producing at least an average
illumination of six foot-candles over the area of the room at a height of 30
inches above the floor (three foot-candles minimum requirement in bathrooms),
excepting that such rooms that are connected to another room or area and such
other room or area is used only seasonally (such as, but not limited to,
porches) and adequate daylight enters the said habitable room through the
interconnection, are not required to have such windows or skylights.
      (2)   The minimum total window or skylight area shall be measured between
stops and shall be, for every room where required, equal to at least 8% of the
floor area of the room in which located. No window shall be deemed to be facing
outdoors if any light obstructing structures are located less than three feet
from such window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room in
which such window is located, and the same shall not be included as
contributing to the required minimum total window area.
      (3)   Every public hall and every stairway in every multiple dwelling
shall be adequately lighted by natural or electrical light at all times, so as
to provide in all parts thereof at least ten foot-candles of light at the tread
or floor level. Every public hall and every stairway in structures containing
not more than two-dwelling units or not more than two rooms used as rooming
units shall comply with the provisions of this section relating to multiple
dwellings, or in the alternative, shall be supplied with conveniently located
light switches controlling an adequate lighting system to be turned on when
needed with full time lighting not being required.
   (B)   Ventilation. Every habitable room, excepting those connected to
another room or area that is used only seasonally and adequate ventilation is
provided through such interconnection and further excepting those rooms
ventilated by some other approved device, shall have at least one window or
skylight facing outdoors which can be easily opened, or provided mechanical
exhaust of 60 cfm, exhausted to the atmosphere above the roofline or secured
into a vented soffit area and away from openable windows into which foul air
might be blown. The total of openable window or skylight area required shall be
equal to at least 4% of the floor area of the room in which it is located.
   (C)   Bathroom ventilation. Every bathroom and water closet compartment
shall comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable rooms as provided
in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   Electrical service. The electrical service within each dwelling,
dwelling unit, and accessory structure shall comply with the applicable
electrical, fire, residential, and other codes adopted by the city, including,
but not limited to, the following requirements:
      (1)   No dwelling shall have less than a 100-amp service. No dwelling or
electric service upon any dwelling premises shall utilize or have knob and tube
wiring; upon removal of knob and tube wiring the entire electric service,
outlets, and fixtures shall comply with the electrical code of the city.
      (2)   Where there is usable electrical service available from power lines
which are situated not more than 300 feet from a dwelling, every dwelling unit
situated in such dwelling and all public and common areas of such dwelling
shall be supplied with electrical service, outlets, and fixtures which shall be
properly installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working condition, and
shall be connected to a source of electrical power in a lawful manner and in
accordance with applicable codes. Under no circumstance shall temporary wiring
for electrical service within a dwelling unit or for any accessory structure be
permitted. The minimum capacity of such service and the number of outlets and
fixtures shall be as follows:
         (a)   Every habitable room shall have electrical service and outlets
and/or fixtures capable of providing at least three watts per square foot of
total floor area. Outlets should be distributed reasonably evenly around the
room. Extension cords may not be used for more than their UL rated capacity; no
extension cord shall be used as a receptacle for another extension cord.
         (b)   Every habitable room and every non-habitable room used for food
preparation shall have at least one floor type or one wall type electrical
convenience outlet for each 60 square feet or fraction thereof total floor
area, and in no case less than two such outlets.
         (c)   Every bathroom, water closet compartment, kitchen or
kitchenette, laundry room, furnace room and public hall shall contain at least
one ceiling type or one wall type electrical light fixture.
   (E)   Heating facilities. Every dwelling shall have permanent heating
facilities which are properly installed, maintained in safe and good working
condition with proper safety devices, and which are capable of safely and
adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments
in every dwelling unit located therein, to a temperature of at least 68°F at a
distance of 36 inches above floor level under ordinary winter conditions.
Permanent heating facilities are not capable of being readily moved around the
dwelling and are generally affixed directly to the building. Examples of
permanent heating facilities include, but are not limited to, oil, gas,
electric and coal furnaces or boilers; electrical heat pumps; wood furnaces or
stoves; electric baseboard heaters; active or passive solar devices; or devices
connected to a district heating system. Permanent heating facilities can be
used singly or in combinations to meet the performance standards contained
herein. Any auxiliary heater shall be UL approved and equipped with automatic
shutoff. All auxiliary heaters must be used in accordance with manufacturer's
instructions. Auxiliary heaters are intended to supplement the permanent
heating facilities. Auxiliary heating devices include, but are not limited to,
portable electric space heaters and portable kerosene or oil heaters. The
capacity of auxiliary heaters shall not be counted in determining whether the
performance standards for heating are met in a dwelling.
   (F)   Insect protection. During that portion of each year between May 1 and
October 1, both dates inclusive, every door opening directly from a dwelling
unit or rooming unit to outside space that is used for ventilation and every
window and other device with openings to outside space that is used or capable
of being used for ventilation shall have properly fitted screens having at
least 16 mesh so as to afford protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other
flying insects. Screens must be on premises and available for inspection from
October 2 through April 30, both dates inclusive. Also between May 1 and
October 1 all hinged screen doors shall be equipped with self-closing devices.
Provided however, that if a dwelling unit has fully functioning and operating
central air conditioning which services the entire dwelling unit then the
screening requirements herein are not applicable.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.12 STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling
or dwelling unit, intended for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum space in dwelling units. The minimum habitable room space of
any dwelling unit shall be not less than 150 square feet of floor area for the
first occupant and not less than an additional 100 square feet of floor area
for every additional occupant.
   (B)   Minimum space in sleeping rooms. Every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by one occupant shall have a minimum floor area of at least 70 square
feet. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall
contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant.
   (C)   Access to bathrooms and sleeping rooms. Any dwelling or dwelling unit
containing two or more sleeping rooms shall have such room arrangement so as to
provide access to a bathroom or water closet compartment so as to permit
persons using each of such sleeping rooms to have access to a bathroom or water
closet compartment without the necessity of passing through another sleeping
room and shall further have such room arrangement so as to provide access to
each sleeping room so as to permit persons using such sleeping room to have
access thereto without the necessity of passing through another sleeping room
or through any bathroom or water closet compartment. Provided however that if a
dwelling, constructed in full compliance with the applicable codes on the date
of its construction, because of its structural design is noncompliant with the
provisions of this section, such nonconformity may continue but shall not be
expanded.
   (D)   Height requirements. At least one-half the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet. The floor
area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet
shall not be considered as a part of the floor area in computing the total
floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the minimum permissible
occupancy thereof. Provided however that if a dwelling, constructed in full
compliance with the applicable codes on the date of its construction, because
of its structural design is noncompliant with the provisions of this section,
such nonconformity may continue but shall not be expanded.
   (E)   Rooms below grade. Basements may be used as dwelling units if they
meet the light, ventilation, heating, egress and all other applicable portions
of this chapter. No basement space shall be deemed fit for or used as a
habitable room or dwelling unit unless the floor and walls thereof are
impervious to leakage of underground and surface runoff water and dampness.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.13 STANDARDS FOR ROOMING HOUSES.
   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, no person shall
operate a rooming house or occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming
house except in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
unless such rooming house complies with the following requirements:
   (A)   Bathing and toilet facilities. At least one flush water closet,
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, in good working condition and properly
connected to sewer and water system in accordance with the applicable articles
and ordinances of the city and the laws of the state shall be supplied for each
five persons or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including
members of the operator's family wherever they share the use of said
facilities; provided, however, that in the case where rooms are rented only to
males, flush urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half of the
required number of water closets. Such bathing and toilet facilities shall be
reasonably accessible from a common hallway or passageway to all persons
sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied with hot water at all times.
   (B)   Bed linen and towels. Where bedding, bed linen or towels are supplied,
the owner or operator shall maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall furnish clean bed linen and towels at least once each week and in any
event prior to the renting of any room to any occupant.
   (C)   Rooming unit. Every room constituting or being a part of a rooming
unit that is occupied for sleeping purposes shall comply with the standards set
forth in division (B) of this section, and shall, in addition, contain not less
than four square feet of closet space per occupant.
   (D)   Means of egress. Every rooming unit shall have immediate access to not
less than two safe, unobstructed means of egress, with minimum headroom of six
feet four inches leading to safe and open space at ground level.
   (E)   Mobile homes. Every provision of this chapter applicable to rooming
houses shall apply equally to mobile homes used for rooming houses.
   (F)   Hot air heating system returns. Where hot air heating systems are
used, no return air shall be circulated directly from one unit or sleeping room
to another.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.14 STANDARDS FOR SECURITY.
   (A)   Scope. All dwelling units within the city shall meet the minimum
requirements as set forth herein except structures which, although providing
sleeping accommodations, are primarily used for.
      (1)   Medical care or other treatment of individuals suffering from
physical or mental illness, disease or infirmity;
      (2)   The care of infants, convalescents, or the elderly;
      (3)   Penal or corrective purposes; and
      (4)   Hotel or motel purposes and which provide temporary sleeping
accommodations for hire used by transients with or without meals.
   (B)   Alternative materials and methods of construction. The provisions of
this section are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of
structural design or analysis not specifically prescribed herein, provided any
such alternate is substantiated by suitable evidence.
   (C)   Approval of alternate material or method. The Building and Inspection
Department may approve any such alternate material or method provided the
proposed design is satisfactory and the material or method of work offered is,
for the purposes intended, at least equivalent of that prescribed in this
section.
   (D)   Security standards. Except as otherwise herein provided, exterior
doors serving as the required means of egress to the exterior of a multiple
dwelling, dormitory, rooming house, and individual dwelling units shall comply
with the following provisions:
      (1)   Doors to individual dwelling units shall meet the following
security standards:
         (a)   Single doors shall be secured with a single cylinder locking
device. In addition, if requested in writing by a tenant, each single door
shall also be secured with a dead bolt lock having a minimum throw of one inch
or a hook or an expanding bolt with a throw of three-fourths inch provided that
the type of lock shall be at the election of the landlord with the cost of the
lock and installation thereof to be paid by the tenant and provided that upon
installation of such additional locking device the locking device shall become
the property of the landlord and shall thereafter remain installed and be
maintained by the landlord so that it is functional. All locking devices
required herein shall have bolts that contain hardened material to repel
attempts at cutting through the bolt.
         (b)   On pairs of doors, the active leaf shall be secured with the
type lock required for single doors in division (D)(1)(a) of this section. The
inactive leaf shall be equipped with flush or surface bolts protected by
hardened material with a minimum throw of three-fourths inch at the head and
foot of the door. Multiple point locks, cylinder activated from the active leaf
and complying with division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the requirements
herein, may be used in lieu of flush bolts.
         (c)   Exterior doors to individual dwelling units shall have rabbeted
jambs which are reinforced at the point where the required lock engages the
jamb.
         (d)   Firmly secured metal strike plates are required on the jambs of
all doors and are to be located at the point when the required lock engages the
jamb.
         (e)   Locking devices and parts of locking devices shall not be used
if they bear any numbers or letter which would reveal a combination from which
the key deactivates the locking device.
      (2)   All patio type of sliding doors opening onto patios or balconies
which are accessible from the outside shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Patio type or sliding doors shall not be used or installed as
exterior doors for the main entrance of any individual dwelling unit.
         (b)   All single sliding patio doors shall have the movable section of
the door sliding on the inside of the fixed portion of the door, except as
provided in division (B) of this section.
         (c)   Dead bolt locks shall be provided on all single sliding patio
doors. If the lock is operable from the outside, it shall be activated by a key
utilizing a cylinder of pin tumbler construction. Mounting screws for the lock
case shall be inaccessible from the outside. Lock bolts shall be of hardened
steel or have hardened steel inserts and shall be capable of withstanding a
force of 300 pounds applied in any direction. The lock bolt shall engage the
strike sufficiently to prevent its being disengaged by any possible movement of
the door within the space or clearances provided for installation and
operation. The strike area shall be reinforced to maintain effectiveness of
bolt strength. In lieu of providing a dead bolt lock that meets the
requirements of this section, a single sliding patio door may utilize a
removable physical barrier (such as a rod or pipe of substantial construction)
of suitable and functional length that is manually placed within the tract of
the sliding patio door to securely block the patio door closed.
         (d)   Double sliding patio doors must be locked at the meeting rail
and meet the locking requirements as specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Alternate methods for securing doors with movable sections of
the door sliding on the outside of the fixed portion of the door must be
approved by the building official.
      (3)   Any exterior door and any garage door or other inside door leading
to the common areas of any multiple dwelling, dormitory or rooming house or to
a garage attached to any dwelling unit, which has outside hinge pins shall be
secured by a minimum of two safety hinge studs or hinges having nonremovable
hinge pins, one hinge above and one below the center of any locking device.
      (4)   Parking facilities either under or within the confines of the
perimeter walls of any dwelling unit, multiple-family dwelling, dormitory, or
rooming house which are equipped with any garage door shall be so equipped that
such doors are capable of being locked. Specific locking devices to be employed
shall be of one or more of the following types: (a) throw bolt or flush bolt;
(b) dead bolt; (c) cylinder type lock; (d) padlock and hasp; or (e) or an
electronic power operated mechanism with automatic locking capabilities. When a
padlock type locking device is used, the slide bolt or hasp and shackle to
which the padlock is attached shall be constructed of hardened steel and shall
be installed so that it cannot be removed when the door is closed and the
padlock is activated.
      (5)   All exterior windows other than fixed windows or those designed not
to be opened, less than 12 feet off ground level or any other accessible
exterior level shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Windows shall be so constructed that when the window is locked
it cannot be lifted from the frame.
         (b)   All windows shall be equipped with a locking device which shall
be capable of withstanding a force of 150 pounds applied in any direction, and
all locks should fully engage.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.15 PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to establish primary
responsibilities in certain areas of compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Each owner or occupant shall have responsibility for compliance with
this chapter and be subject to enforcement, notwithstanding any agreement
assigning primary or other responsibility to the other or to a third person.
   (B)   Primary responsibilities of occupants. Every occupant above the age of
18 years shall be primarily responsible as to that part of any building,
structure or premises over which such occupant shall have a right to possession
or control, for the following:
      (1)   To keep the same in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   To not permit rubbish, garbage or other materials to accumulate so
as to create a vermin harborage.
      (3)   To dispose of rubbish, garbage and other material in the manner
provided by city ordinances.
      (4)   The extermination of insects and vermin, after 21 continuous days
of occupancy where: (a) the dwelling contains only one dwelling unit, or only
the occupant's dwelling unit of a dwelling containing more than one dwelling
unit is infested; and (b) infestation has resulted from some cause other than
the failure of an owner to maintain the dwelling in a vermin proof or
reasonably insect proof condition prior to the commencement of the occupancy.
      (5)   To not do anything to cause intentional interruption or
disconnection of any utility for which the occupant is liable.
      (6)   To maintain and replace required screens after the owner has
fulfilled all his primary responsibilities regarding the same as hereinafter
set forth in division (C) of this section.
      (7)   To remove any abandoned or inoperative vehicle or machinery owned
by the occupant as provided by city ordinance.
   (C)   Primary responsibilities of owners. Every owner shall be responsible
as to that part of any building, structure or premises over which such owner
has the right to possession or control, including, but not limited to, areas
used by the public or used in common by occupants of two or more dwelling
units, as hereinafter set forth (such responsibilities shall likewise apply to
any other part of a building, structure or premises where the content of any
such responsibility so implies) as follows:
      (1)   To provide and install all required screens once each calendar
year.
      (2)   To keep the same in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   To not permit rubbish, garbage or other materials to accumulate so
as to create a vermin harborage.
      (4)   To provide adequate and suitable containers for rubbish, garbage or
other waste materials where the premises in question contains three or more
dwelling units.
      (5)   VERMIN PROOFING as defined in this chapter.
      (6)   The extermination of insects and vermin in all instances excepting
those instances where the occupant is primarily responsible therefor as
hereinabove provided in division (B) of this section.
      (7)   To keep and maintain all supplied facilities in good and proper
condition and operation.
      (8)   To provide and maintain in working order a permanent heating system
as specified in this chapter. In structures in which the permanent heating
system supplies heat to two or more dwelling units, or rooming units, the owner
shall be responsible for supplying heat in accordance with the standard in this
chapter. Where compliance is not reasonably possible because of general
shortage of fuel or because of some act of an occupant, the provisions of this
section shall not apply until such causes have been corrected.
      (9)   To not do anything to cause an intentional interruption or
disconnection of any utility for which an owner is liable.
      (10)   To remove any abandoned or inoperative vehicle or machinery not
owned by the current occupants from the premises as provided by city ordinance.
      (11)   To keep and maintain all accessory structures in good and proper
condition.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer duties. The Building Inspector of the city and
inspectors or authorized designees, are hereby authorized and directed by the
city to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific
duties:
      (1)   To inspect dwellings, accessory structures, and residential
premises in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   To take appropriate actions to correct violations of this chapter;
      (3)   To review and issue applications for occupancy permits and
temporary occupancy permits;
      (4)   To maintain up to date records of all matters pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of this chapter;
      (5)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the city council and city attorney;
      (6)   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this chapter;
      (7)   To attend the applicable meetings of the city council, any court
hearings concerning this chapter, and to cooperate with the corporate
authorities, including the City Attorney's office;
      (8)   To prepare an occupancy permit application form, inspection
checklist, and certificate of occupancy;
      (9)   To make surveys in any area of the city to determine the general
condition of structures used for human habitation, the extent of any
deterioration, lack of facilities and maintenance, unsafe and unsanitary
conditions, the extent of overcrowding and land use, and any other matters
relating to the provision and requirements of this chapter;
      (10)   To perform such other duties as the corporate authorities may from
time to time prescribe.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   In order to safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the public
of the city, inspectors are hereby authorized to make exterior and interior
inspections of all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units,
hotels, motels, multiple dwellings and premises, when the same shall appear
necessary to determine the condition thereof and the compliance or
noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Immediate access to and entry to any such dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, hotel, motel, multiple dwelling or premises, shall
be afforded any such inspector in the case of an emergency determined by the
Building and Inspection Department or Fire Department to exist.
      (3)   No such access and entry shall be required, however, unless such
inspector shall first identify himself and request entry; and exhibit his badge
or other visual identification to any person entitled to the same who requests
said identification.
      (4)   Every owner, owner's agent, an occupant of a rental dwelling(s)
shall provide access to the rental dwelling(s) as required. If any owner or
occupant of a dwelling unit fails or refuses to permit free access and entry to
the structure or premises under his or her control, or any part thereof, with
respect to which an inspection authorized by this chapter is sought to be made,
the Building Inspector may petition and obtain an administrative search
warrant.
      (5)   Whenever inspections of any non-owner occupied dwelling units are
made and there are no violations, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued to
the property owner or owner's agent and shall be made available by the owner or
the owner's agent to tenants and prospective tenants.
      (6)   If upon subsequent inspections, violations of this chapter are
found, the certificate of occupancy shall be surrendered to the city, and if
not surrendered it may be revoked or will result in a minimum fine of not less
than $250 and no more than $750.
   (C)   Notice of violations. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, in
those instances where the Building Inspector determine that there exists a
violation of this chapter, written notice of violation shall be given to the
owner or the owner's agent and the occupant of the rental dwelling or unit.
Such written notice shall state the alleged violation and a legal description
or local address of the structure in violation. It shall state that such
violation must be corrected within a reasonable time period specified by the
Building Inspector based on the nature and severity of the violation. Such
notice may be personally served on the person to whom addressed or may be sent
by first class, registered, or certified mail, to the last known address of the
addressee; such service by mail shall be deemed to have been served at the time
of the deposit in the mail thereof. Service shall also be made by posting a
placard copy of such notice in a conspicuous place in or about the building,
structure or premises in question. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
notice may be given in any other manner permitted by law in the service of
process in civil cases.
   (D)   Unfit dwelling units. In addition to any other rights and powers
granted to the Building Inspector under the provisions of this chapter may
designate and find unfit for human habitation any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, hotel, motel, rooming unit, multiple dwelling or premises and
may so placard the same, in the manner described in division (C) of this
section upon determining that one or more or all of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   The building, structure or premises lacks illumination,
ventilation, sanitation, heat or other facilities adequate to protect the
health and safety of the occupants or of the public;
      (2)   The building, structure or premises is damaged, decayed,
unsanitary, unsafe or vermin infested in such a manner and to such extent as to
create a serious hazard to the health and safety of the occupants or of the
public;
      (3)   The building, structure or premises, because of the location
thereof, the general conditions existing, the state of the premises or number
of occupants, is so unsanitary, unsafe, overcrowded or otherwise detrimental to
the health and safety that it creates a serious hazard to the health and safety
of the occupants or of the public.
   (E)   Notice of intent to vacate. Whenever the Building Inspector determines
that a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or multiple
dwelling, is unfit for human habitation as provided in division (D) of this
section, it shall include such findings within the notice of violations
provided for in division (C) of this section, and it shall also include a
statement of its intent to vacate and placard the dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or multiple dwelling, if compliance with the
provisions of the notice of violation has not been secured.
   (F)   Order to vacate. Whenever a notice of violation, as provided for under
division (C) of this section, has not been complied with the Building and
Inspection Department or Fire Department may order the dwelling to be vacated.
A copy of such notice to vacate shall be served on the owner, agent, operator
or the occupant, as provided in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   Vacating an unfit dwelling. Any dwelling or dwelling unit, rooming
house, rooming unit, or multiple dwelling designated as unfit for human
habitation pursuant to division (D) of this section and ordered vacated as
provided in division (F) of this section, shall be vacated within such
reasonable time as the Building and Inspection Department or Fire Department
may specify in the order. No such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house,
rooming unit or multiple dwelling shall again be used for human habitation and
the placard removed until written approval is secured from the Building and
Inspection Department or Fire Department.
   (H)   Vacated dwellings made secure. The owner, agent, or operator of any
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or multiple dwelling
shall make such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or
multiple dwelling safe and secure in whatever manner the Building and
Inspection Department or Fire Department shall deem necessary. Any vacant
building open at a door or window or other unenclosed opening shall be deemed
dangerous to human life and a nuisance within the meaning of this provision.
   (I)   Power to act in emergencies. Notwithstanding the notice of violation
provisions of this section, as provided by division (C) of this section,
whenever the Building and Inspection Department or Fire Department, at any
time, shall determine that a violation of this chapter exists and that such
violation is of such a nature as to require immediate action to abate a hazard
or immediate danger to the health, safety, morals or welfare of the occupants
of any building or structure or of the public, the Building and Inspection
Department or Fire Department may issue an order citing the violation and
ordering the immediate abatement or removal or correction of such hazard or
danger as the Building and Inspection Department or Fire Department appears
necessary and proper. Such order may include, but is not limited to, an order
to vacate the building, structure or premises in question. Any order issued
under the provision of this section shall be and become effective immediately
upon the issuance thereof. The powers granted by this section shall be in
addition to any and all other rights and powers granted by law.
   (J)   Records. All requests to inspect and/or copy records or documents
prepared, maintained and under the control of the city shall be made in
accordance with Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.17 UNLAWFUL INTERRUPTION OF TENANT OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any landlord or any person acting at
their direction to knowingly oust or dispossess or attempt to oust or
dispossess any tenant from a dwelling unit without authority of law, by
plugging, changing, adding or removing any lock or latching device; or by
blocking any entrance into said unit; or by removing any door or window from
said unit; or by interfering with the services to said unit, including, but not
limited to, electricity, gas, hot or cold water, plumbing, heat or telephone
services; or by removing a tenant's personal property from said unit; or by the
use of force or threat of violence, injury or force to a tenant's person or
property; or by any other act rendering a dwelling unit or any part thereof or
any personal property located therein inaccessible or uninhabitable.
   (B)   Defense. The following shall constitute a valid defense to any
prosecution by the city of a complaint alleging violation of division (A) of
this section (although nothing herein shall authorize any landlord or other
person to take any action or to commit any act otherwise prohibited by state or
federal law):
      (1)   A landlord acts in compliance with the laws of Illinois pertaining
to forcible entry and detainer and engages the sheriff of Williamson County to
forcibly evict a tenant or his personal property;
      (2)   A landlord acts in compliance with the laws of Illinois pertaining
to distress for rent;
      (3)   A landlord acts pursuant to court order;
      (4)   A landlord interferes temporarily with possession only as necessary
to make needed repairs or inspection and only as provided by law;
      (5)   The tenants with a right to possession of the dwelling unit have
been absent therefrom for 30 consecutive days without advising the landlord of
such absence or their intent to return, and the current rent is 30 or more days
overdue, and after diligent inquiry the landlord has valid reason to believe
that tenants have abandoned the premises and do not intend to return; or
      (6)   After diligent inquiry the landlord has valid reason to believe
that the tenants identified within a written lease have surrendered possession
of the premises and do not intend to return, and by the express language of
said lease document the lease term has expired for at least ten days, and the
landlord has not accepted any rental or other payment after expiration of the
lease term for rental for periods after expiration of the lease term.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.18 NONLIABILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   No officer, agent or employee of the city shall be personally liable for any
damage to persons or property resulting from any act required or permitted in
the discharge of the duties of such officer, agent, or employee under the
provisions of this chapter. Any lawsuit of any nature brought against such
officer, agent, or employee as a result of any act, requirement or permitted
function in the discharge of the official duties of such officer, agent, or
employee aforesaid shall be defended at the sole expense of the city until a
complete and final determination of such lawsuit.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
§ 156.19 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or assist in the violation of any provisions of
this chapter, shall, upon a finding of guilt, be fined not more than $750 for
each offense. Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition, said persons shall be subject to an action for
injunction to eliminate or to prevent violations of this chapter or of any
other applicable code of the city related thereto.
(Ord. 03-17, passed 4-25-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   ENTERPRISE ZONE
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   SURPLUS PROPERTY
      
V.   TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
      
VI.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the southeast
07-10    4-13-2010   quarter of Section 14, Township 8 South, Range 2 East of
                     the Third Principal Meridian
                     Annexes part of the southeast quarter of Section 14, and
19-12    11-13-2012  part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section
                     13
04-21    3-9-2021    Annexes certain territory as described in Exhibit A
                     attached to Ord. 04-21
                    
 
TABLE II: ENTERPRISE ZONE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
24-90    12-26-1990  Establishes an enterprise zone, terms, area and other
                     provisions
02-11    5-24-2011   Limits incentives to enterprise zone
14-12    8-14-2012   Clarifies limiting incentives to enterprise zone
04-14    6-10-2014   Adds territory to enterprise zone
06-14    10-28-2014  Extends and clarifies incentives of county enterprise zone
4-15     7-28-2015   Adds territory to enterprise zone
01-16    2-9-2016    Adds territory to enterprise zone
04-19    3-26-2019   Adds territory to enterprise zone
09-19    6-11-2019   Adds territory to enterprise zone
15-19    8-13-2019   Adds territory to enterprise zone
22-19    11-12-2019  Establishing the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
06-20    6-23-2020   Adds territory to Williamson County Enterprise Zone
11-20    10-13-2020  Deletes property tax incentive clarifications (Section II
                     of Ord. 06-14) for Williamson County Enterprise Zone
03-21    2-9-2021    Adds territory to the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
14-21    11-23-2021  Adds territory to the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
05-22    3-8-2022    Adds territory to the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
06-22    4-12-2022   Adds territory to the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
07-23    5-23-2023   Adds territory to the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
19-24    11-12-2024  Adds territory to the Williamson County Enterprise Zone
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3-96     2-13-1996   Grants cable television franchise to TCI Growth, Inc.
04-10    5-11-2010   Amends the terms of an electric franchise with Amerencips
11-10    12-28-2010  Approves a right-of-way license agreement with Delta
                     Communications, L.L.C.
15-16    11-15-2016  Extending franchise agreement with Ameren IL
12-18    11-13-2018  Establishing franchise fees for Mediacom Illinois LLC
05-24    2-13-2024   Extending franchise agreement with Ameren IL
                    
 
TABLE IV: SURPLUS PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
08-10    7-27-2010   Declares real property excess and surplus, property index
                     02-13-434-006
19-11    8-23-2011   Declares real property excess and surplus, property index
                     3-18-379-001 (Terry Perry field)
22-11    9-27-2011   Declares real property excess and surplus, a street on
                     recorded plat of Lake Creek Coal’s First Addition
03-14    3-25-2014   Declares real property excess and surplus (certain
                     vehicles)
03-15    6-23-2015   Donate surplus vehicle to Village of Hurst
05-15    7-28-2015   Declare property as excess and surplus (road grader)
03-16    2-9-2016    Declare certain property surplus
05-16    3-6-2016    Declare certain property surplus
06-16    3-22-2016   Declare certain real property surplus
05-18    4-10-2018   Declare certain property as excess and surplus (vehicle)
07-18    6-12-2018   Declare certain property as excess and surplus (certain
                     equipment)
01-19    2-12-2019   Declaring various parcels of real property as surplus and
                     authorizing immediate sale
05-19    5-14-2019   Declaring certain property as surplus (equipment)
06-19    5-28-2019   Declaring certain property as surplus (equipment)
10-19    6-11-2019   Declaring certain property as surplus (vehicle)
11-19    6-11-2019   Declaring certain property as surplus (K-9 Unit "Crush")
13-19    6-25-2019   Declaring certain parcels of real property as surplus and
                     authorizing immediate sale
17-19    8-27-2019   Declaring certain property as surplus and transferring to
                     City of Brookport (Fire pumper truck)
26-19    12-23-2019  Declaring a certain vehicle as surplus
27-19    12-23-2019  Declaring certain equipment as surplus (golf cart)
02-20    2-11-2020   Declaring a certain vehicle as surplus
05-20    3-10-2020   Declaring a certain vehicle as surplus
01-21    1-12-2021   Declaring certain property as surplus
07-21    6-8-2021    Declaring certain vehicles as surplus
10-21    8-2-2021    Declaring certain real property as surplus and authorizing
                     immediate sale
13-21    11-23-2021  Declaring K-9 unit “Shoki” surplus and transferable
14-21A   12-14-2021  Declaring certain real property as surplus
01-22    1-25-2022   Declaring certain real property as surplus
10-22    9-15-2022   Declaring certain real property as surplus
05-23    4-25-2023   Declaring certain real property as surplus
06-23    4-25-2023   Declaring certain personal property as surplus
10-23    7-11-2023   Declaring certain personal property as surplus
12-23    8-8-2023    Declaring certain equipment as excess and surplus
14-23    9-26-2023   Declaring K-9 unit “Shadow” surplus and transferrable
02-24    1-23-2024   Declaring a certain vehicle surplus
03-24    1-23-2024   Declaring certain real property as surplus
10-24    6-11-2024   Declaring certain personal property as surplus
17-24    9-24-2024   Declaring certain personal property as surplus
                    
 
TABLE V: TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
13-  7-24-  Established interested parties registry and rules
12   2012
20-  11-27- Approves the city tax increment financing redevelopment plan and redevelopment
12   2012   project
21-  11-27- Designates the city TIF II tax increment financing redevelopment project area
12   2012
22-  11-27- Adopts tax increment financing
12   2012
06-  6-13-  Amending the redevelopment agreement between the city and George R. Spiller Jr.
17   2017
07-  6-13-  Amending the redevelopment agreement between the city and Harvey Pete Moake and
17   2017   Sherri R. Moake
12-  10-10- Authorizing the establishment of tax increment financing “interested parties”
17   2017   registries and adopting rules
02-  1-23-  Entering into a redevelopment agreement with Jason Hamlin
18   2018
07-  5-28-  Entering into a redevelopment agreement with A&R Bell Properties
19   2019
08-  5-28-  Entering into a redevelopment agreement with Daniel Sloan
19   2019
06-  1-10-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement between the city and Keri
24   2023   Davis D/B/A Blondie's Bakery
07-  10-24- Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement between the city and
24   2023   George Spiller Jr.
08-  10-24- Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement between the city and
24   2023   George Spiller Jr.
12-  4-9-   Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement utilizing special
24   2024   allocation funds for a project at 110 E. Broadway
13-  4-9-   Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement utilizing special
24   2024   allocation funds for a project at 1010 W. 10th Street
           
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
23-  9-27-  Vacates street and disburses real property, a parcel of land shown as
11   2011   “street” on the recorded plat of Lake Creek Coal’s First Addition
20-  10-22- Vacating part of an alley south of 8th Street between 305 and 307 W.
19   2019   8th Street
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1999 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Reference 2016 Code Section
ILCS Reference                2016 Code Section
5 ILCS 5/1-1-2                10.02
5 ILCS 7/1.03                 10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.01                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                   10.04
5 ILCS 120/1—120/5          31.002
5 ILCS 120/2.02               31.021
5 ILCS 179/1                  30.05
5 ILCS 179/45                 30.05
5 ILCS 220/1 et seq.          Ch. 34, App. A
5 ILCS 220/5                  Ch. 34, App. A
5 ILCS 270/1                  31.056
5 ILCS 315/3                  30.65
5 ILCS 430/5-15               30.65
5 ILCS 430/5-65               30.70
5 ILCS 430/15-10              30.70
5 ILCS 430/50-5               30.65
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)            30.65
10 ILCS                       31.051
10 ILCS 5/1-3                 30.65
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4               30.65
10 ILCS 5/9-3                 30.65
10 ILCS 5/10-2                32.23
15 ILCS 5/4(e)                53.086
20 ILCS 5/16-104              35.061
                              34.076,
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.        34.084,
                              34.999
30 ILCS 235                   31.147
30 ILCS 235/1 et seq.         93.07
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.         55.001
35 ILCS 5/4-2                 31.090
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.         110.001
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.         110.001
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.         110.001
35 ILCS 120/2-27              35.021
35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.       35.096
35 ILCS 200/15-175            156.04
35 ILCS 200/18-15(b)          93.11
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.         35.021
35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.         35.021
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.       35.020
35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.         35.021
40 ILCS 5/7-132 et seq.       35.005
40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.      35.004
45 ILCS 10/1-101              154.006
45 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.      31.057
50 ILCS 20/1 et seq.          93.08
50 ILCS 105/2                 31.052
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.         34.039
65 ILCS 5                     10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2               10.02,
                              31.061
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1               10.99,
                              152.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1             10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4               31.106
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5               31.106
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2               130.01,
                              130.02
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12              31.050,
                              31.058
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5            31.055
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6            31.053
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-10           31.051
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15           31.051
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30           31.053,
                              31.056
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35           31.053,
                              31.114
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40           31.117,
                              31.053
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45           31.119
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50           31.004,
                              31.054
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5            31.080,
                              31.105
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10           31.080,
                              31.082
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-15           31.052
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20           31.053,
                              31.111
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25           31.053
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5            31.105,
                              31.137
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-10           31.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5            31.160
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10           31.119
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5            31.088
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10           31.085
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20           31.082
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30           31.083
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35           31.081
                              31.138,
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40           31.139,
                              31.142
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45           31.139,
                              31.143
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55           31.140
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65           31.145
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-70           31.145
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85           31.141
                              31.050,
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90           31.106,
                              31.107
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95           31.119
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110          31.106,
                              31.112
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115          31.118
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15           31.020
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20           31.007,
                              31.008
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25           31.002,
                              31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30           31.091
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40           31.035
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45           31.035
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50           31.036
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55           31.037
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5            31.059,
                              31.223
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 et seq.    31.059
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10           31.223
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15           31.223
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(b)        31.062
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5            31.084
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1               35.001
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8               35.003
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1               31.058
65 ILCS 5/8-9-2               31.058
                              35.041,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1              35.145,
                              35.160,
                              35.164
                              35.060,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2              35.061,
                              35.999
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5              35.145,
                              35.160
                              35.175,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24             35.176,
                              35.178
65 ILCS 5/10-1-1              93.07
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1              32.28
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1            32.20,
                              32.21
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-2            32.22
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-3            32.23
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4            32.29
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-6            32.30
65 ILCS 5/10-3                32.28
                              90.010,
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1              90.041,
                              130.02,
                              131.30
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 et seq.      34.038
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3              35.002
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6              34.070
                              110.040,
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2              110.066,
                              131.03
65 ILCS 5/11-5-6              90.006,
                              90.010
65 ILCS 5/11-5-7.2            34.108
65 ILCS 5/11-6.1-1            34.108
65 ILCS 5/11-10-1             32.49
65 ILCS 5/11-10-2             32.45,
                              32.48
65 ILCS 5/11-11-1.1           92.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12               32.09
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4—5/11-12- 132.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-5             154.002
                              154.020,
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8             154.023,
                              154.060
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8—5/11-12- 1154.002
65 ILCS 5/11-12-11            154.005
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12            32.06,
                              152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.     155.275,
                              155.290
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3             155.275
65 ILCS 5/11-13-13            155.279
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6             94.06,
                              94.27
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7             94.27
                              90.010,
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9             90.031,
                              90.041
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15            94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1          94.07
5 ILCS 5/11-20-15             94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1          94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2             152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8             152.01
                              153.131,
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1             153.132,
                              153.134
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1(e)          150.111
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2             152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1           75.02
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2             94.06
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1—5/11-80- 296.095
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13            96.110
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17            96.020
65 ILCS 205/1                 154.061
65 ILCS 205/1(B)              154.020,
                              154.023
65 ILCS 205/2                 152.08,
                              154.023
65 ILCS 205/6                 154.025
65 ILCS 205/7                 154.025
65 ILCS 205/8                 154.025
70 ILCS 405/22.02A            154.020
75 ILCS 5/2                   93.07
75 ILCS 5/4 et seq.           93.15
75 ILCS 5/4-1                 31.052,
                              93.02
75 ILCS 5/4-1.1               93.03
75 ILCS 5/4-4                 93.04
75 ILCS 5/4-5                 93.02
75 ILCS 5/4-6                 93.05
75 ILCS 5/4-7                 93.07
75 ILCS 5/4-7.1               93.08
75 ILCS 5/4-7.2               93.09
75 ILCS 5/4-9                 93.06
75 ILCS 5/4-10                93.11
75 ILCS 5/5-1                 93.07
75 ILCS 10/1 et seq.          93.07
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.        155.002,
                              155.220
210 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.      152.07
220 ILCS 5/9-221              35.021
220 ILCS 5/9-222              35.021
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1            35.021
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.        55.033
225 ILCS 320/3(1)             53.086
225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.     110.039
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.      110.105,
                              111.018
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.         111.018
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.         112.01
235 ILCS 5                    111.094
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.06             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1           111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.30             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.34             111.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.36             111.001
235 ILCS 5/4-1                111.015
235 ILCS 5/4-2                31.090,
                              111.001
235 ILCS 5/4-4                111.066,
                              111.092
235 ILCS 5/4-5                111.017
235 ILCS 5/6-1                111.021
235 ILCS 5/6-2                111.018
235 ILCS 5/6-5                111.068
235 ILCS 5/6-10               111.066
235 ILCS 5/6-11               111.042
235 ILCS 5/6-12               111.044
235 ILCS 5/6-15               111.068
                              111.058,
                              111.069,
235 ILCS 5/6-16               111.070,
                              111.071,
                              111.072,
                              111.073
235 ILCS 5/6-17               111.068
                              111.061,
235 ILCS 5/6-20               111.062,
                              111.063,
                              111.065
235 ILCS 5/6-22               111.068
235 ILCS 5/6-24               111.024
235 ILCS 5/6-28               111.041
235 ILCS 5/7-1                111.016
235 ILCS 5/7-5                111.094
235 ILCS 5/7-7                111.093,
                              111.095,
235 ILCS 5/7-9                111.096,
                              111.097
235 ILCS 5/7-13               111.091
235 ILCS 5/7-14               111.043
235 ILCS 5/10-2               111.085
235 ILCS 5/10-3               111.086
235 ILCS 5/10-4               111.087
235 ILCS 5/10-5               111.088
235 ILCS 5/10-6               111.089
235 ILCS 5/10-7               111.090
410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.        111.052
410 ILCS 650/10               111.053
430 ILCS 150/1                131.26
510 ILCS 5/1                  90.001
510 ILCS 5/2.02               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.03               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.05               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.06               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.11               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.12               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.13               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.14               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.15               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.16               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.18               90.002
510 ILCS 5/2.19               90.002
510 ILCS 5/10                 90.032
625 ILCS                      156.04
625 ILCS 5                    75.09
625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.          70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.      33.07
625 ILCS 5/1-101.8            77.02
625 ILCS 5/1-188              10.02
625 ILCS 5/3-412(k)           70.11
625 ILCS 5/4-201              75.02
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.      74.07
625 ILCS 5/4-201—5/4-215    74.07
625 ILCS 5/4-202              75.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203              75.04
625 ILCS 5/4-204              75.05
625 ILCS 5/4-205              75.06
625 ILCS 5/4-206              75.07
625 ILCS 5/4-207              75.08
625 ILCS 5/4-208              75.09
625 ILCS 5/4-209              75.10
625 ILCS 5/4-210              75.11
625 ILCS 5/4-211              75.12
625 ILCS 5/4-213              75.13
625 ILCS 5/11-500—11-502    77.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq.  74.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2          74.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1302            74.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1303            74.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1426            77.03
625 ILCS 5/12-215             72.11
625 ILCS 5/12-503(g)          70.11
625 ILCS 5/12-709             77.03
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.      136.01
720 ILCS 2-1—2-11           130.01
720 ILCS 2-13—2-16          130.01
720 ILCS 2-19                 130.01
720 ILCS 2-20                 130.01
720 ILCS 5                    130.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1               132.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1               111.056
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3)—(a)(11111.018
720 ILCS 5/28-2               110.105
720 ILCS 5/28-3               111.018
720 ILCS 5/31-7               131.11
720 ILCS 5/31-8               133.03
720 ILCS 500/1 et seq.        139.01
720 ILCS 550/3                139.01
720 ILCS 550/11               139.02,
                              139.03
720 ILCS 550/12               139.02—
                              139.04
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.      139.01
720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.      139.01
720 ILCS 600/5                139.05
720 ILCS 635/0.01 et seq.     139.05
720 ILCS 646/10               139.01
720 ILCS 675/1                131.08
720 ILCS 680-1 et seq.        131.09
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.      92.53,
                              155.279
740 ILCS 174/15(a)         30.70
740 ILCS 174/15(b)            30.70
745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.     92.06
745 ILCS 10/2-201 et seq.     31.057
                              152.08,
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.        154.002,
                              154.023,
                              154.060
775 ILCS 5/6-101              30.70
805 ILCS 5                    111.001,
                              111.018
805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.   111.092
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.        34.080
820 ILCS 310/1 et seq.        34.080
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1999 CODE
1999 Code Reference 2016 Code Section
1999 Code Reference           2016 Code Section
1-1-5                         10.18
1-1-9                         10.19
1-1-10                        10.20
1-1-16                        10.02
1-1-24                        10.21
1-1-25                        10.22
1-2-1                         31.001
1-2-2                         31.002
1-2-3                         31.003
1-2-4                         31.004
1-2-5                         31.005
1-2-6                         31.006
1-2-7                         31.007
1-2-8                         31.008
1-2-11                        31.020
1-2-12                        31.021
1-2-14                        31.035
1-2-15                        31.036
1-2-16                        31.037
1-2-19                        31.050
1-2-20                        31.051
1-2-21                        31.052
1-2-22                        31.053
1-2-23                        31.054
1-2-24                        31.055
1-2-25                        31.056
1-2-26                        31.057
1-2-27                        31.058
1-2-29                        31.059
1-2-30                        31.060
1-2-31                        31.061
1-2-32                        31.062
1-2-33                        31.063
1-2-34                        31.064
1-2-35                        31.065
1-2-36                        31.066
1-2-40                        31.080
1-2-41                        31.081
1-2-43                        31.082
1-2-45                        31.083
1-2-46                        31.084
1-2-47                        31.085
1-2-48                        31.086
1-2-49                        31.087
1-2-50                        31.088
1-2-51                        31.089
1-2-52                        31.090
1-2-53                        31.091
1-2-56                        31.105
1-2-58                        31.106
1-2-59                        31.107
1-2-60                        31.108
1-2-61                        31.109
1-2-62                        31.110
1-2-63                        31.111
1-2-64                        31.112
1-2-65                        31.113
1-2-66                        31.114
1-2-67                        31.115
1-2-68                        31.116
1-2-69                        31.117
1-2-70                        31.118
1-2-71                        31.119
1-2-72                        31.135
1-2-73                        31.136
1-2-74                        31.137
1-2-75                        31.138
1-2-76                        31.139
1-2-77                        31.140
1-2-79                        31.141
1-2-80                        31.142
1-2-81                        31.143
1-2-82                        31.144
1-2-83                        31.145
1-2-84                        31.146
1-2-85                        31.147
1-2-88                        31.160
1-2-89                        31.161
1-2-101                       31.175
1-2-102                       31.176
1-2-106                       31.190
1-2-107                       31.191
1-2-108                       31.192
1-2-114                       31.205
1-2-115                       31.206
1-2-116                       31.207
1-2-117                       31.208
1-3-1                         31.220
1-3-2                         31.221
1-3-3                         31.222
1-3-4                         31.223
1-3-5                         31.224
1-4-1                         30.01
1-5-1                         30.15
1-5-2                         30.16
1-6-1                         30.30
1-6-2                         30.31
1-7-1                         30.45
1-7-2                         30.46
1-7-3                         30.47
1-7-4                         30.48
1-8-1                         30.65
3-1-1                         90.001
3-1-2                         90.002
3-1-3                         90.003
3-1-4                         90.004
3-1-5                         90.005
3-1-6                         90.006
3-1-7                         90.007
3-1-8                         90.008
3-1-9                         90.009
3-1-10                        90.010
3-2-1                         90.025
3-2-2                         90.026
3-2-3                         90.027
3-2-4                         90.028
3-2-5                         90.029
3-2-6                         90.030
3-2-7                         90.031
3-2-8                         90.032
3-2-9                         90.033
3-2-10                        90.034
3-2-11                        90.035
3-2-12                        90.036
3-2-13                        90.037
3-2-14                        90.038
3-2-15                        90.039
3-2-16                        90.040
3-2-17                        90.041
3-3-1                         90.055
3-3-2                         90.056
3-3-3                         90.057
3-3-4                         90.058
3-3-5                         90.059
3-3-6                         90.060
3-3-7                         90.061
3-3-8                         90.062
3-3-9                         90.063
3-3-10                        90.064
3-3-11                        90.065
3-4-1                         90.080
3-4-2                         90.081
3-4-3                         90.082
3-4-4                         90.083
3-4-5                         90.084
3-4-6                         90.085
3-4-7                         90.086
3-4-8                         90.087
3-4-9                         90.088
3-4-10                        90.089
3-4-11                        90.090
3-4-12                        90.091
3-4-13                        90.092
3-4-14                        90.093
3-4-15                        90.094
3-4-16                        90.095
3-4-17                        90.096
3-4-18                        90.097
3-4-19                        90.098
3-4-20                        90.099
3-4-21                        90.100
3-4-22                        90.101
3-4-23                        90.102
3-4-24                        90.103
4-1-1                         32.01
4-1-2                         32.02
4-1-3                         32.03
4-1-4                         32.04
4-1-5                         32.05
4-1-6                         32.06
4-1-7                         32.07
4-1-8                         32.08
4-1-9                         32.09
4-2-1                         32.20
4-2-2                         32.21
4-2-3                         32.22
4-2-4                         32.23
4-2-5                         32.24
4-2-6                         32.25
4-2-7                         32.26
4-2-8                         32.27
4-2-9                         32.28
4-2-10                        32.29
4-2-11                        32.30
4-3-1                         32.45
4-3-2                         32.46
4-3-3                         32.47
4-3-4                         32.48
4-3-5                         32.49
4-3-6                         32.50
4-3-7                         32.51
4-3-8                         32.52
6-1-1                         150.001
6-1-2                         150.002
6-1-3                         150.003
6-1-4                         150.004
6-1-5                         150.005
6-1-6                         150.006
6-2-1                         150.020
6-2-2                         150.021
6-2-3                         150.022
6-2-4                         150.023
6-2-5                         150.024
6-2-6                         150.025
6-2-7                         150.026
6-2-8                         150.027
6-3-1                         150.040
6-3-2                         150.041
6-3-3                         150.042
6-3-4                         150.043
6-4-1                         150.055
6-4-2                         150.056
6-4-3                         150.057
6-5-1                         150.070
6-5-2                         150.071
6-5-3                         150.072
6-5-4                         150.999
6-6-2                         150.086
6-6-3                         150.087
6-6-4                         150.088
6-6-5                         150.089
6-6-6                         150.090
6-6-7                         150.091
6-6-8                         150.092
6-6-9                         150.093
6-6-10                        150.094
6-6-11                        150.095
6-6-12                        150.096
6-6-13                        150.097
6-6-14                        150.999
6-7-1                         150.110
7-1-1                         110.001
7-1-2                         110.002
7-1-3                         110.003
7-1-4                         110.004
7-1-5                         110.005
7-1-6                         110.006
7-1-7                         110.007
7-1-8                         110.008
7-1-9                         110.009
7-1-10                        110.010
7-1-11                        110.011
7-1-12                        110.012
7-1-13                        110.013
7-1-14                        110.014
7-1-15                        110.015
7-1-16                        110.016
7-1-17                        110.017
7-2-1                         110.030
7-2-2                         110.031
7-2-3                         110.032
7-2-4                         110.033
7-2-5                         110.034
7-2-6                         110.035
7-2-7                         110.036
7-2-8                         110.037
7-2-9                         110.038
7-2-10                        110.039
7-2-11                        110.040
7-3-1                         110.055
7-3-2                         110.056
7-3-3                         110.057
7-3-4                         110.058
7-3-5                         110.059
7-3-6                         110.060
7-3-7                         110.061
7-3-8                         110.062
7-3-9                         110.063
7-3-10                        110.064
7-3-11                        110.065
7-3-12                        110.066
7-4-1                         110.080
7-4-2                         110.081
7-4-3                         110.082
7-4-4                         110.083
7-4-5                         110.084
7-4-6                         110.085
7-4-7                         110.086
7-4-8                         110.087
7-4-9                         110.088
7-4-10                        110.089
7-4-11                        110.090
7-5-1                         110.105
7-5-2                         110.106
7-5-3                         110.107
7-5-4                         110.108
7-5-5                         110.109
7-5-6                         110.110
7-5-7                         110.111
7-5-8                         110.112
7-6-1                         110.125
7-6-2                         110.126
7-6-3                         110.127
7-6-4                         110.128
7-6-5                         110.129
7-6-6                         110.130
7-7-1                         110.145
7-7-2                         110.146
7-7-3                         110.147
7-7-4                         110.148
7-7-5                         110.149
7-7-6                         110.150
7-7-7                         110.151
7-7-8                         110.999
7-8-1                         110.165
7-8-2                         110.166
7-8-3                         110.167
7-8-4                         110.168
7-8-5                         110.169
7-8-6                         110.170
7-8-7                         110.171
7-8-8                         110.172
7-8-9                         110.173
7-8-10                        110.174
7-8-11                        110.999
Ch. 7, Forms                  Ch. 110, App. A
9-1-1                         91.01
9-1-2                         91.02
9-1-3                         91.03
9-2-1                         91.15
9-2-2                         91.16
9-2-3                         91.17
9-2-4                         91.18
9-2-5                         91.19
9-2-6                         91.20
9-2-7                         91.21
9-2-8                         91.22
9-2-9                         91.23
9-2-10                        91.24
9-2-11                        91.25
9-3-1                         91.40
9-3-2                         91.41
9-3-3                         91.42
11-1-1                        151.01
11-1-2                        151.02
11-1-3                        151.03
11-1-4                        151.04
11-1-5                        151.05
11-1-6                        151.06
11-1-7                        151.07
11-1-8                        151.08
11-1-9                        151.09
11-1-10                       151.10
11-1-11                       151.11
11-1-12                       151.12
11-1-13                       151.13
11-1-14                       151.14
11-1-15                       151.15
13-1-1                        33.01
13-1-2                        33.02
13-1-3                        33.03
13-1-4                        33.04
13-1-5                        33.05
13-1-6                        33.06
13-1-7                        33.07
13-1-8                        33.08
13-1-9                        33.09
13-1-10                       33.10
13-1-11                       33.11
13-1-12                       33.12
13-1-13                       33.13
13-1-14                       33.14
13-1-15                       33.15
13-1-16                       33.16
13-1-17                       33.17
13-1-18                       33.18
13-1-19                       33.19
13-1-20                       33.20
13-1-21                       33.21
13-1-23                       33.23
13-1-24                       33.24
13-1-25                       33.25
13-1-26                       33.26
13-1-33                       33.22
13-2-1                        33.40
14-1-1                        92.01
14-1-2                        92.02
14-1-3                        92.03
14-1-4                        92.04
14-1-5                        92.05
14-1-6                        92.06
14-2-1                        92.20
14-2-2                        92.21
14-2-3                        92.22
14-2-4                        92.23
14-2-5                        92.24
14-2-6                        92.25
14-2-7                        92.26
14-2-8                        92.27
14-2-9                        92.28
14-3-1                        92.40
14-3-2                        92.41
14-3-3                        92.42
14-3-4                        92.43
14-3-5                        92.44
14-3-6                        92.45
14-3-7                        92.46
14-3-8                        92.47
14-3-9                        92.48
14-3-10                       92.49
14-3-11                       92.50
14-3-12                       92.51
14-3-13                       92.52
14-3-14                       92.99
14-3-15                       92.53
15-1-1                        152.01
15-1-2                        152.02
15-1-3                        152.03
15-1-4                        152.04
15-1-5                        152.05
15-1-6                        152.06
15-1-7                        152.07
15-1-8                        152.08
15-1-9                        152.09
15-1-10                       152.10
15-1-11                       152.99
15-1-12                       152.11
17-1-1                        50.01
17-1-2                        50.02
17-1-3                        50.03
17-1-4                        50.04
17-1-5                        50.05
17-1-6                        50.06
17-1-7                        50.07
17-1-8                        50.08
17-1-9                        50.09
17-1-10                       50.10
17-1-11                       50.11
17-1-12                       50.12
17-1-13                       50.13
17-1-14                       50.14
17-1-15                       50.15
17-1-16                       50.16
20-1-1                        93.01
20-1-2                        93.02
20-1-3                        93.03
20-1-4                        93.04
20-1-5                        93.05
20-1-6                        93.06
20-1-7                        93.07
20-1-8                        93.08
20-1-9                        93.09
20-1-10                       93.10
20-1-11                       93.11
20-1-12                       93.12
20-1-13                       93.13
20-1-14                       93.14
20-1-15                       93.15
21-1-1                        111.001
21-2-1                        111.015
21-2-2                        111.016
21-2-3                        111.017
21-2-4                        111.018
21-2-5                        111.019
21-2-6                        111.020
21-2-7                        111.021
21-2-8                        111.022
21-2-9                        111.023
21-2-10                       111.024
21-2-11                       111.025
21-3-1                        111.040
21-3-2                        111.041
21-3-3                        111.042
21-3-4                        111.043
21-3-5                        111.044
21-3-6                        111.045
21-3-7                        111.046
21-3-8                        111.047
21-3-9                        111.048
21-3-10                       111.049
21-3-11                       111.050
21-3-12                       111.051
21-3-13                       111.052
21-3-14                       111.053
21-3-15                       111.054
21-3-16                       111.055
21-3-17                       111.056
21-3-18                       111.057
21-3-19                       111.058
21-3-20                       111.059
21-3-21                       111.060
21-3-22                       111.061
21-3-23                       111.062
21-3-24                       111.063
21-3-25                       111.064
21-3-26                       111.065
21-3-27                       111.066
21-3-28                       111.067
21-3-29                       111.068
21-3-30                       111.069
21-3-31                       111.070
21-3-32                       111.071
21-3-33                       111.072
21-3-34                       111.073
21-4-1                        111.085
21-4-2                        111.086
21-4-3                        111.087
21-4-4                        111.088
21-4-5                        111.089
21-4-6                        111.090
21-4-7                        111.091
21-4-8                        111.092
21-4-9                        111.093
21-4-10                       111.094
21-4-11                       111.095
21-4-12                       111.096
21-4-13                       111.097
Ch. 21, Application           Ch. 111, App. A
24-6-1                        74.01
24-6-2                        74.02
24-6-3                        74.03
24-6-4                        74.04
24-6-5                        74.05
24-6-6                        74.06
24-6-7                        74.07
24-6-8                        74.08
24-6-9                        74.09
24-6-10                       74.10
24-6-11                       74.11
24-7-1                        75.01
24-7-2                        75.02
24-7-3                        75.03
24-7-4                        75.04
24-7-5                        75.05
24-7-6                        75.06
24-7-7                        75.07
24-7-8                        75.08
24-7-9                        75.09
24-7-10                       75.10
24-7-11                       75.11
24-7-12                       75.12
24-7-13                       75.13
24-7-14                       75.99
24-8-1                        76.01
24-8-2                        76.02
24-8-3                        76.03
24-8-4                        76.04
24-8-5                        76.05
24-8-6                        76.06
24-8-7                        76.07
24-8-8                        76.08
24-8-9                        76.09
24-8-10                       76.10
Ch. 24, Sch. A                Ch. 78, Sch. I
Ch. 24, Sch. B                Ch. 78, Sch. II
Ch. 24, Sch. C                Ch. 78, Sch. III
Ch. 24, Sch. D                Ch. 78, Sch. IV
Ch. 24, Sch. E                Ch. 78, Sch. V
Ch. 24, Sch. G                Ch. 79, Sch. II
Ch. 24, Sch. H                Ch. 78, Sch. VI
Ch. 24, Sch. I                Ch. 78, Sch. VII
Ch. 24, Sch. J                Ch. 78, Sch. VIII
Ch. 24, Sch. K                Ch. 78, Sch. IX
Ch. 24, Sch. F                Ch. 79, Sch. I
25-1-1                        94.01
25-1-2                        94.02
25-1-3                        94.03
25-1-4                        94.04
25-1-5                        94.05
25-1-6                        94.06
25-1-7                        94.07
25-2-1                        94.20
25-2-2                        94.21
25-2-3                        94.22
25-2-4                        94.23
25-2-5                        94.24
25-2-6                        94.25
25-2-7                        94.26
25-2-8                        94.27
25-3-1                        94.40
25-3-2                        94.41
25-3-3                        94.42
25-3-4                        94.43
25-3-5                        94.44
25-3-6                        94.45
25-3-7                        94.46
25-4-1                        94.60
25-4-2                        94.61
25-4-3                        94.62
Ch. 25, Forms                 Ch. 94, App. A
27-1-1                        130.01
27-1-2                        130.02
27-2-1                        131.01
27-2-2                        131.02
27-2-3                        131.03
27-2-4                        131.04
27-2-5                        131.05
27-2-6                        131.06
27-2-7                        131.07
27-2-8                        131.08
27-2-9                        131.09
27-2-10                       131.10
27-2-11                       131.11
27-2-12                       131.12
27-2-13                       131.13
27-2-14                       131.14
27-2-15                       131.15
27-2-16                       131.16
27-2-17                       131.17
27-2-18                       131.18
27-2-19                       131.19
27-2-20                       131.20
27-2-21                       131.21
27-2-22                       131.22
27-2-23                       131.23
27-2-24                       131.24
27-2-25                       131.25
27-2-26                       131.26
27-2-27                       131.27
27-2-28                       131.28
27-2-29                       131.29
27-2-30                       131.30
27-3-1                        132.01
27-3-2                        132.02
27-3-3                        132.03
27-3-4                        132.04
27-3-5                        132.05
27-4-1                        133.01
27-4-2                        133.02
27-4-3                        133.03
27-4-4                        133.04
27-4-5                        133.05
27-4-6                        133.06,
                              133.99
27-5-1                        134.001
27-5-2                        134.002
27-5-3                        134.003
27-5-4                        134.004
27-5-5                        134.005
27-5-7                        134.020
27-5-8                        134.021
27-5-10                       134.035
27-5-11                       134.036
27-5-12                       134.037
27-5-13                       134.038
27-5-14                       134.039
27-5-15                       134.040
27-5-16                       134.041
27-5-17                       134.042
27-5-18                       134.043
27-5-22                       134.055
27-5-23                       134.056
27-5-24                       134.057
27-5-25                       134.058
27-5-26                       134.059
27-5-27                       134.060
27-5-28                       134.061
27-5-29                       134.062
27-5-30                       134.063
27-5-31                       134.064
27-5-32                       134.065
27-5-35                       134.080
27-5-36                       134.081
27-5-37                       134.082
27-5-38                       134.083
27-5-39                       134.084
27-5-40                       134.085
27-5-41                       134.086
27-6-1                        135.01
27-6-2                        135.02
27-7-1                        136.01
27-7-2                        136.02
27-7-3                        137.03
27-8-1                        137.01
27-8-2                        137.02
27-9-1                        138.01
27-9-2                        138.02
27-9-3                        138.03
27-9-4                        138.04
27-9-5                        138.05
27-9-6                        138.06
27-9-7                        138.07
27-9-8                        138.08
28-1-1                        95.01
28-1-2                        95.02
28-1-3                        95.03
28-1-4                        95.04
28-1-5                        95.05
28-1-6                        95.06
28-1-7                        95.07
28-1-8                        95.08
28-1-9                        95.09
28-1-10                       95.10
28-1-11                       95.11
28-1-12                       95.12
28-2-1                        95.25
28-2-2                        95.26
28-2-3                        95.27
28-2-4                        95.28
28-3-1                        95.40
29-1-1                        153.001
29-2-1                        153.015
29-2-2                        153.016
29-2-3                        153.017
29-2-4                        153.018
29-2-5                        153.019
29-3-1                        153.030
29-3-2                        153.031
29-3-3                        153.032
29-4-1                        153.045
29-4-2                        153.046
29-4-3                        153.047
29-5-1                        153.060
29-5-2                        153.061
29-5-3                        153.062
29-5-4                        153.063
29-5-5                        153.064
29-5-6                        153.065
29-5-7                        153.066
29-5-8                        153.067
29-5-9                        153.068
29-5-10                       153.069
29-5-11                       153.070
29-5-12                       153.071
29-5-13                       153.072
29-5-14                       153.073
29-5-15                       153.074
29-6-1                        153.085
29-6-2                        153.086
29-6-3                        153.087
29-6-4                        153.088
29-6-5                        153.089
29-6-6                        153.090
29-6-7                        153.091
29-6-8                        153.092
29-7-1                        153.105
29-7-2                        153.106
29-7-3                        153.107
29-7-4                        153.108
29-7-5                        153.109
29-7-6                        153.110
29-7-7                        153.111
29-7-8                        153.112
29-7-9                        153.113
29-7-10                       153.114
29-7-11                       153.115
29-8-1                        153.130
29-8-2                        153.999
29-8-3                        153.131
29-8-4                        153.132
29-8-5                        153.133
29-8-6                        153.134
29-8-7                        153.135
29-9-1                        153.150
29-9-2                        153.151
29-9-3                        153.152
29-9-4                        153.153
29-9-5                        153.154
29-9-6                        153.155
30-1-1                        34.001
30-1-2                        34.002
30-1-3                        34.003
30-1-4                        34.004
30-1-5                        34.005
30-1-6                        34.006
30-2-1                        34.020
30-2-2                        34.021
30-2-3                        34.022
30-2-4                        34.023
30-2-5                        34.024
30-2-6                        34.025
30-2-7                        34.026
30-2-8                        34.027
30-2-9                        34.028
30-2-10                       34.029
30-2-11                       34.030
30-2-12                       34.031
30-2-13                       34.032
30-2-14                       34.033
30-2-15                       34.034
30-2-16                       34.035
30-2-17                       34.036
30-2-18                       34.037
30-2-19                       34.038
30-3-1                        34.055
30-3-2                        34.056
30-3-3                        34.057
30-3-4                        34.058
30-4-1                        34.070
30-4-2                        34.071
30-4-3                        34.072
30-4-4                        34.073
30-4-5                        34.074
30-4-6                        34.075
30-4-7                        34.076
30-4-8                        34.077
30-4-9                        34.078
30-4-10                       34.079
30-4-11                       34.080
30-4-12                       34.081
30-4-13                       34.082
30-4-14                       34.083
30-4-15                       34.084
30-4-16                       34.085
30-4-17                       34.086
30-4-18                       34.087
30-4-19                       34.088
30-4-20                       34.089
30-4-21                       34.090
30-4-22                       34.091
30-4-23                       34.999
30-5-1                        34.105
30-5-2                        34.105
30-5-3                        34.105
30-5-5                        34.106
30-5-6                        34.106
30-5-7                        34.106
30-5-8                        34.106
30-5-9                        34.106
30-5-11                       34.107
30-5-12                       34.107
30-5-13                       34.107
30-5-14                       34.107
30-5-15                       34.107
30-5-16                       34.107
30-5-17                       34.107
30-5-18                       34.107
30-5-19                       34.107
30-5-20                       34.107
30-5-21                       34.107
30-5-22                       34.107
30-5-23                       34.107
30-5-24                       34.107
30-5-30                       34.108
30-5-31                       34.108
30-5-32                       34.108
30-5-33                       34.108
30-5-34                       34.108
30-5-35                       34.108
30-5-36                       34.108
30-6-1                        34.120
30-6-2                        34.121
Ch. 30, App. A                34.107
Ch. 30, App. B                Ch. 34, App. A
33-1-1                        96.001
33-1-2                        96.002
33-2-1                        96.015
33-2-2                        96.016
33-2-3                        96.017
33-2-4                        96.018
33-2-5                        96.019
33-2-6                        96.020
33-2-7                        96.021
33-2-8                        96.022
33-2-9                        96.023
33-2-10                       96.024
33-2-11                       96.025
33-2-12                       96.026
33-2-13                       96.027
33-2-14                       96.028
33-2-15                       96.029
33-2-16                       96.030
33-2-17                       96.031
33-2-18                       96.032
33-2-19                       96.033
33-3-1                        96.045
33-3-2                        96.046
33-3-3                        96.047
33-3-4                        96.048
33-3-5                        96.049
33-3-6                        96.050
33-3-7                        96.051
33-3-8                        96.052
33-4-1                        96.065
33-4-2                        96.066
33-4-3                        96.067
33-4-4                        96.068
33-4-5                        96.069
33-4-6                        96.070
33-4-7                        96.071
33-4-8                        96.072
33-4-9                        96.073
33-4-10                       96.074
33-4-11                       96.075
33-4-12                       96.076
33-4-13                       96.077
33-4-14                       96.078
33-4-15                       96.079
33-4-16                       96.080
33-4-17                       96.081
33-4-18                       96.082
33-4-19                       96.083
33-4-20                       96.084
33-4-21                       96.085
33-4-22                       96.086
33-4-23                       96.087
33-4-24                       96.088
33-4-25                       96.089
33-4-26                       96.090
33-4-27                       96.091
33-4-28                       96.092
33-4-29                       96.093
33-4-30                       96.094
33-4-31                       96.095
33-5-1                        96.110
33-5-2                        96.111
33-5-3                        96.112
33-6-1                        96.125
33-6-2                        96.126
33-6-3                        96.127
33-6-4                        96.128
33-6-5                        96.129
33-6-6                        96.130
33-6-7                        96.131
33-6-8                        96.132
33-7-1                        96.145
33-7-2                        96.146
33-7-3                        96.147
33-7-4                        96.148
33-7-5                        96.149
33-7-6                        96.150
33-8-1                        96.165
33-8-2                        96.166
33-8-3                        96.167
33-8-4                        96.168
33-9-1                        96.180
33-9-2                        96.181
33-9-3                        96.182
33-9-4                        96.183
33-9-5                        96.184
33-9-6                        96.185
33-9-7                        96.186
33-9-8                        96.187
33-9-9                        96.188
33-9-10                       96.189
33-9-11                       96.190
33-9-12                       96.191
33-9-13                       96.192
33-9-14                       96.193
33-9-15                       96.194
33-9-16                       96.195
33-9-17                       96.196
33-9-18                       96.197
33-9-19                       96.198
33-9-20                       96.199
33-9-21                       96.200
33-9-22                       96.201
33-10-1                       96.215
33-10-2                       96.216
33-10-4                       96.218
33-10-5                       96.219
33-10-9                       96.217
Ch. 33, Applications; Permits Ch. 96, App. A
34-1-1                        154.001
34-1-2                        154.002
34-1-3                        154.003
34-1-4                        154.004
34-1-5                        154.005
34-1-6                        154.006
34-1-7                        154.007
34-2-1                        154.008
34-2-2                        154.009
34-3-1                        154.020
34-3-4                        154.020
34-3-5                        154.020
34-3-6                        154.020
34-3-8                        154.021
34-3-9                        154.021
34-3-10                       154.021
34-3-11                       154.021
34-3-13                       154.022
34-3-14                       154.022
34-3-15                       154.022
34-3-16                       154.022
34-3-17                       154.022
34-3-18                       154.022
34-3-19                       154.022
34-3-22                       154.023
34-3-23                       154.023
34-3-24                       154.023
34-3-25                       154.023
34-3-26                       154.023
34-3-27                       154.023
34-3-28                       154.023
34-3-35                       154.024
34-3-36                       154.024
34-3-37                       154.025
34-4-1                        154.040
34-4-2                        154.041
34-4-3                        154.042
34-4-4                        154.043
34-4-5                        154.044
34-4-6                        154.045
34-4-7                        154.046
34-5-Table 5A                 Ch. 154, App. A
34-5-1                        154.060
34-5-2                        154.060
34-5-4                        154.061
34-5-5                        154.061
34-5-6                        154.061
34-5-7                        154.062
34-5-8                        154.062
34-5-9                        154.062
34-5-10                       154.062
34-5-11                       154.062
34-5-12                       154.062
34-5-13                       154.062
34-5-14                       154.062
34-5-15                       154.062
34-5-16                       154.062
34-5-20                       154.063
34-5-21                       154.063
34-5-22                       154.063
34-5-25                       154.064
34-5-26                       154.064
34-5-27                       154.064
34-5-29                       154.065
34-5-30                       154.065
34-5-32                       154.066
34-5-33                       154.066
34-5-35                       154.067
34-5-37                       154.068
34-5-38                       154.068
34-5-39                       154.068
34-5-40                       154.068
34-5-42                       154.069
34-5-43                       154.069
34-5-45                       154.070
34-5-46                       154.070
34-5-47                       154.070
34-5-49                       154.071
34-5-50                       154.071
34-5-52                       154.072
34-5-53                       154.072
34-5-54                       154.072
34-5-55                       154.072
34-5-56                       154.072
34-5-57                       154.072
34-5-58                       154.072
34-5-60                       154.073
34-5-61                       154.073
34-5-62                       154.073
34-5-63                       154.073
34-5-65                       154.074
34-5-66                       154.074
34-5-68                       154.075
34-5-69                       154.075
34-5-70                       154.075
34-5-72                       154.999
34-5-73                       154.999
34-5-74                       154.999
36-1-1                        35.001
36-1-2                        35.002
36-1-3                        35.003
36-1-4                        35.004
36-1-5                        35.005
36-1-6                        35.006
36-1-7                        35.007
36-2-1                        35.020
36-2-2                        35.021
36-2-3                        35.022
36-2-4                        35.023
36-2-5                        35.024
36-2-6                        35.025
36-3-1                        35.040
36-3-2                        35.041
36-3-3                        35.042
36-3-4                        35.043
36-3-5                        35.044
36-3-6                        35.045
36-3-7                        35.046
36-3-8                        35.047
36-3-9                        35.999
36-4-1                        35.060
36-4-2                        35.061
36-4-3                        35.062
36-4-4                        35.063
36-4-5                        35.064
36-4-6                        35.065
36-4-7                        35.999
36-5-1                        35.080
36-5-2                        35.081
36-5-3                        35.082
36-5-4                        35.083
36-5-5                        35.084
36-5-6                        35.999
36-6-1                        35.095
36-6-2                        35.096
36-6-3                        35.097
36-6-4                        35.098
36-6-5                        35.099
36-6-6                        35.100
36-6-7                        35.101
36-6-8                        35.102
36-6-9                        35.103
36-6-10                       35.104
36-6-11                       35.105
36-6-12                       35.106
36-6-13                       35.107
36-6-14                       35.108
36-6-15                       35.109
36-6-16                       35.110
36-6-17                       35.111
38-1-1                        51.01
38-1-2                        51.02
38-1-3                        51.03
38-1-4                        51.04
38-2-1                        52.01
38-2-2                        52.02
38-2-4                        52.04
38-2-5                        52.05
38-2-6                        52.06
38-2-7                        52.07
38-2-8                        52.08
38-2-9                        52.09
38-3-1                        53.001
38-3-2                        53.002
38-3-3                        53.003
38-3-4                        53.004
38-3-5                        53.005
38-3-6                        53.006
38-3-7                        53.007
38-3-8                        53.008
38-3-9                        53.009
38-3-10                       53.010
38-3-11                       53.011
38-3-12                       53.012
38-3-13                       53.013
38-3-16                       53.025
38-3-17                       53.026
38-3-18                       53.027
38-3-19                       53.028
38-3-20                       53.029
38-3-21                       53.030
38-3-25                       53.045
38-3-26                       53.046
38-3-27                       53.047
38-3-28                       53.048
38-3-29                       53.049
38-3-30                       53.060
38-3-31                       53.061
38-3-32                       53.062
38-3-33                       53.063
38-3-34                       53.064
38-3-35                       53.065
38-3-36                       53.080
38-3-37                       53.081
38-3-38                       53.082
38-3-39                       53.083
38-3-40                       53.084
38-3-41                       53.085
38-3-42                       53.086
38-3-43                       53.087
38-3-44                       53.088
38-3-45                       53.089
38-3-46                       53.090
38-3-47                       53.091
38-3-48                       53.092
38-3-51                       53.105
38-3-52                       53.106
38-3-53                       53.107
38-3-54                       53.108
38-3-55                       53.109
38-4-1                        54.01
38-4-2                        54.02
38-4-3                        54.03
38-4-7                        54.15
38-4-8                        54.16
38-4-9                        54.17
38-4-10                       54.18
38-4-11                       54.19
38-4-12                       54.30
38-4-13                       54.31
38-4-14                       54.32
38-4-15                       54.33
38-4-16                       54.34
38-4-17                       54.35
38-4-20                       54.50
38-4-21                       54.51
38-4-22                       54.52
38-4-23                       54.53
38-4-24                       54.54
38-4-25                       54.55
38-4-26                       54.56
38-4-27                       54.57
38-4-28                       54.58
38-4-29                       54.59
38-4-30                       54.60
38-4-31                       54.61
38-4-32                       54.62
38-4-33                       54.63
38-5-1                        55.001
38-5-3                        55.015
38-5-4                        55.016
38-5-5                        55.017
38-5-6                        55.018
38-5-10                       55.030
38-5-11                       55.031
38-5-12                       55.032
38-5-13                       55.033
38-5-14                       55.034
38-5-15                       55.035
38-5-16                       55.036
38-5-17                       55.037
38-5-21                       55.050
38-5-22                       55.051
38-5-23                       55.052
38-5-24                       55.053
38-5-25                       55.054
38-5-26                       55.055
38-5-27                       55.056
38-5-28                       55.057
38-5-29                       55.058
38-5-30                       55.059
38-5-31                       55.060
38-5-32                       55.061
38-5-33                       55.062
38-5-36                       55.075
38-5-37                       55.076
38-5-38                       55.077
38-5-39                       55.078
38-5-40                       55.079
38-5-41                       55.080
38-5-42                       55.081
38-5-43                       55.082
38-5-44                       55.083
38-5-45                       55.084
38-5-46                       55.085
38-5-50                       55.100
38-5-52                       55.115
38-5-53                       55.116
38-5-54                       55.117
38-5-56                       55.999
38-5-57                       55.999
38-5-58                       55.999
40-1-1                        155.001
40-2-1                        155.002
40-3-1                        155.015
40-3-2                        155.016
40-3-3                        155.017
40-3-4                        155.018
40-3-5                        155.019
40-4-1                        155.030
40-4-2                        155.031
40-4-3                        155.032
40-4-4                        155.033
40-4-5                        155.034
40-4-6                        155.035
40-4-7                        155.036
40-4-8                        155.037
40-4-9                        155.038
40-4-10                       155.039
40-4-11                       155.040
40-4-12                       155.041
40-4-13                       155.042
40-4-14                       155.043
40-5-1                        155.055
40-5-2                        155.056
40-5-3                        155.057
40-5-4                        155.058
40-5-5                        155.059
40-6-1                        155.070
40-6-2                        155.071
40-6-3                        155.072
40-6-4                        155.073
40-7-1                        155.085
40-7-2                        155.086
40-7-3                        155.087
40-7-4                        155.088
40-8-1                        155.100
40-8-2                        155.101
40-8-3                        155.102
40-8-4                        155.103
40-8-5                        155.104
40-9-1                        155.115
40-9-2                        155.116
40-9-3                        155.117
40-9-4                        155.118
40-9-5                        155.119
40-10-1                       155.130
40-10-2                       155.131
40-10-3                       155.132
40-10-4                       155.133
40-11-1                       155.145
40-11-2                       155.146
40-11-3                       155.147
40-11-4                       155.148
40-11-5                       155.149
40-11-6                       155.150
40-12-1                       155.165
40-12-2                       155.166
40-12-3                       155.167
40-12-4                       155.168
40-12-5                       155.169
40-13-1                       155.180
40-13-2                       155.181
40-13-3                       155.182
40-13-4                       155.183
40-13-5                       155.184
40-14-1                       155.195
40-14-2                       155.196
40-14-3                       155.197
40-14-4                       155.198
40-14-5                       155.199
40-14-6                       155.200
40-15-1                       155.215
40-15-2                       155.215
40-15-3                       155.215
40-15-4                       155.215
40-15-5                       155.215
40-15-9                       155.216
40-15-10                      155.216
40-15-16                      155.217
40-15-19                      155.218
40-15-21                      155.219
40-15-22                      155.219
40-15-30                      155.220
40-15-31                      155.220
40-15-32                      155.220
40-15-33                      155.220
40-15-34                      155.220
40-15-35                      155.220
40-15-36                      155.220
40-15-37                      155.220
40-15-38                      155.220
40-15-39                      155.220
40-15-40                      155.220
40-15-41                      155.220
40-15-42                      155.220
40-15-43                      155.220
40-15-44                      155.220
40-15-45                      155.220
40-15-46                      155.220
40-15-47                      155.220
40-15-48                      155.220
40-15-49                      155.220
40-15-50                      155.220
40-15-51                      155.220
40-15-52                      155.220
40-15-53                      155.220
40-15-54                      155.220
40-15-55                      155.220
40-15-56                      155.220
40-15-57                      155.220
40-15-58                      155.220
40-15-59                      155.999
40-16-1                       155.235
40-16-2                       155.236
40-16-3                       155.237
40-16-4                       155.238
40-16-5                       155.239
40-16-6                       155.240
40-16-7                       155.241
40-17-a                       155.255
40-17-1                       155.256
40-17-2                       155.257
40-17-3                       155.258
40-17-4                       155.259
40-17-6                       155.260
40-18-1                       155.275
40-18-2                       155.276
40-18-3                       155.277
40-18-4                       155.278
40-18-5                       155.279
40-19-1                       155.290
40-19-2                       155.291
40-19-3                       155.292
40-19-4                       155.293
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     33.22,
8-78     - -         33.25,
                     33.26
9-73     - -         91.15
10-81    - -         34.107
13-67    - -         151.07,
                     151.10
13-98    - -         74.04
16-79    - -         34.107
27       - -         110.130
44       - -         96.215
214      - -         54.03
258      - -         96.218
300      - -         151.01—
                     151.14
316      - -         150.095—
                     150.097
334      - -         155.001
                     155.001,
                     155.002,
                     155.015—
                     155.019,
                     155.030—
                     155.043,
                     155.055—
                     155.059,
                     155.070—
                     155.073,
                     155.085—
                     155.088,
                     155.100—
                     155.104,
                     155.115—
                     155.119,
                     155.130—
                     155.133,
334      10-26-1964  155.145—
                     155.150,
                     155.165—
                     155.169,
                     155.180—
                     155.184,
                     155.195—
                     155.200,
                     155.215—
                     155.220,
                     155.235—
                     155.241,
                     155.255—
                     155.260,
                     155.275—
                     155.279,
                     155.290—
                     155.293,
                     155.999
3-81     2-25-1981   150.056
12-81    10-27-1981  34.106
                     150.070—
7-83     8-23-1983   150.072,
                     150.999
                     134.055—
12-84    10-23-1984  134.065,
                     134.080—
                     134.086
11-85    8-13-1985   35.999
346      8-13-1985   35.999
347      8-13-1985   35.999
348      8-13-1985   35.999
16-85    10-22-1985  32.29
5-86     2-11-1986   151.02
15-86    8-26-1986   110.085
4-89     4-11-1989   53.030
                     54.01—
                     54.03,
                     54.15—
13-89    7-11-1989   54.19,
                     54.30—
                     54.35,
                     54.50—
                     54.63
16-89    7-11-1989   55.037
15-90    8-28-1990   53.013
24-90    12-26-1990  TSO, Table II
1-92     2-27-1992   110.999
7-92     6-23-1992   31.208
12-92    11-24-1992  34.107
2-93     4-13-1993   152.11
3-93     5-27-1993   30.31
3-94     2-8-1994    52.03
9-94     3-22-1994   33.27
8-94     4-12-1994   53.065,
                     53.092
10-94    4-12-1994   33.27
11-94    5-25-1994   155.002,
                     155.999
3-95     4-11-1995   155.148
10-95    8-22-1995   133.06,
                     133.99
3-96     2-13-1996   TSO, Table III
13-97    9-23-1997   54.16
14-97    9-23-1997   54.53
                     52.01,
                     52.03,
16-97    11-12-1997  52.08,
                     53.003,
                     53.007,
                     53.013
17-96    11-12-1997  54.16
17-97    11-12-1997  54.16
5-98     8-25-1998   35.999
6-98     9-8-1998    35.061
8-98     10-13-1998  35.045
15-99    11-9-1999   155.220
16-99    11-23-1999  110.090,
                     110.129
18-99    12-14-1999  31.147
5-2000   6-13-2000   94.24
10-2000  9-26-2000   31.220,
                     31.221
11-2000  9-26-2000   33.28
14-00    10-24-2000  31.056
15-00    11-28-2000  111.094
16-01    11-13-2001  111.040
03-02B   6-11-2002   96.033
03A-2002 6-11-2002   Ch. 79, Sch. II
03B-2002 6-11-2002   96.027
10-2002  9-10-2002   54.18,
                     54.19
11-2002  9-10-2002   54.16
12-2002  9-10-2002   54.15,
                     55.052
01-2003  2-11-2003   110.999
03-04    3-23-2004   30.16
07-04    4-27-2004   34.108
08-04    5-11-2004   30.65
10-04    5-25-2004   54.02
17-04    6-22-2004   Ch. 34, App. A
20-2004  8-10-2004   33.06
11-05    11-22-2005  110.112
16-05    12-13-2005  150.097
05-06    5-23-2006   111.020
10-06    9-12-2006   31.175
12-06    10-24-2006  54.15
01-07    1-9-2007    31.002
02-07    1-9-2007    33.40
02-08    2-26-2007   32.52
03-07    3-27-2007   54.57
04-07    3-27-2007   54.53
08-07    7-24-2007   111.020
10-07    8-14-2007   91.40,
                     91.41
11-07    9-25-2007   111.040
13-07    10-23-2007  90.065
12-08    3-25-2008   31.066
                     95.12,
11-08    4-8-2008    95.28,
                     95.40
10-08    6-24-2008   30.48
13-08    8-12-2008   31.222,
                     31.223
03-09    4-28-2009   111.020,
                     111.040
08-09    7-14-2009   54.17
09-09    8-11-2009   34.121
11-09    8-11-2009   34.058
02-10    2-23-2010   31.192,
                     31.224
07-10    4-13-2010   TSO, Table I
04-10    5-11-2010   TSO, Table III
                     77.01—
06-10    5-11-2010   77.05,
                     77.99
08-10    7-27-2010   TSO, Table IV
11-10    12-28-2010  TSO, Table III
02-11    5-24-2011   TSO, Table II
07-11    7-12-2011   54.16
08-11    7-12-2011   50.17
09-11    7-12-2011   54.17
10-11    7-31-2011   111.018
                     35.125—
12-11    7-31-2011   35.133,
                     35.999
13-11    8-9-2011    31.160
14-11    8-9-2011    34.105
17-11    8-23-2011   34.106
18-11    8-23-2011   30.46
19-11    8-23-2011   TSO, Table IV
20-11    8-23-2011   35.145—
                     35.149
21-11    8-23-2011   35.160—
                     35.164
22-11    9-27-2011   TSO, Table IV
23-11    9-27-2011   TSO, Table VI
24-11    9-27-2011   111.020
25-11    9-27-2011   111.059
04-12    3-13-2012   110.085
08-12    6-12-2012   110.086,
                     111.056
10-12    6-26-2012   31.005
11-12    6-26-2012   54.16
12-12    6-26-2012   31.224
13-12    7-24-2012   TSO, Table V
14-12    8-14-2012   TSO, Table II
16-12    9-11-2012   31.222
                     95.02,
18-12    9-11-2012   95.03,
                     95.07,
                     95.08
19-12    11-13-2012  TSO, Table I
20-12    11-27-2012  TSO, Table V
21-12    11-27-2012  TSO, Table V
22-12    11-27-2012  TSO, Table V
01-13    1-8-2013    34.040
02-13    1-8-2013    95.07
04-13    5-14-2013   150.072
05-13    6-11-2013   31.005
07-13    6-25-2013   Ch. 79, Sch. II
08-13    7-23-2013   Ch. 78, Sch. III
10-13    11-12-2013  31.224
11-13    12-10-2013  34.039
01-14    1-28-2014   91.42
01-15    3-24-2015   Ch. 34, App. A
02-14    3-25-2014   74.07
03-14    3-25-2014   TSO, Table IV
04-14    6-10-2014   TSO, Table II
06-14    10-28-2014  TSO, Table II
03-15    6-23-2015   TSO, Table IV
4-15     7-28-2015   TSO, Table II
05-15    7-28-2015   TSO, Table IV
06-15    8-11-2015   110.108,
                     Ch. 110, App. A
07-15    9-22-2015   Ch. 79, Sch. II
08-15    10-13-2015  35.061
09-15    10-13-2015  35.040
11-15    11-24-2015  54.17
01-16    2-9-2016    TSO, Table II
02-16    2-9-2016    111.040
03-16    2-9-2016    TSO, Table IV
05-16    3-6-2016    TSO, Table IV
06-16    3-22-2016   TSO, Table IV
08-16    5-10-2016   Adopting Ordinance
10-16    8-9-2016    74.06,
                     Ch. 78, Sch. VII
11-16    9-27-2016   31.223
12-16    9-27-2016   31.222
13-16    9-27-2016   31.220
15-16    11-15-2016  TSO, Table III
16-16    12-27-2016  Ch. 78, Sch. III
17-16    12-27-2016  111.020
01-17    1-24-2017   50.17
02-17    3-14-2017   139.01—
                     139.06
                     156.01—
03-17    4-25-2017   156.18,
                     156.99
06-17    6-13-2017   TSO, Table V
07-17    6-13-2017   TSO, Table V
09-17    8-8-2017    111.020
10-17    8-22-2017   52.01,
                     52.07
12-17    10-10-2017  TSO, Table V
                     70.01—
                     70.14,
                     70.99,
                     71.01—
14-17    11-14-2017  71.09,
                     72.01—
                     72.19,
                     73.01—
                     73.13
                     112.01—
15-17    12-12-2017  112.07,
                     112.99
16-17    12-12-2017  111.020
17-17    12-26-2017  30.70
01-18    1-9-2018    Ch. 79, Sch. II
02-18    1-23-2018   TSO, Table V
03-18    2-13-2018   Adopting Ordinance
04-18    2-13-2018   30.05
05-18    4-10-2018   TSO, Table IV
07-18    6-12-2018   TSO, Table IV
08-18    7-2-2018    110.066
09-18  7-2-2018    110.040
11-18    8-14-2018   Ch. 78, Sch. III
12-18    11-13-2018  TSO, Table III
01-19    2-12-2019   TSO, Table IV
02-19    2-26-2019   33.15
03-19    3-12-2019   Adopting Ordinance
04-19    3-26-2019   TSO, Table II
05-19    5-14-2019   TSO, Table IV
06-19    5-28-2019   TSO, Table IV
07-19    5-28-2019   TSO, Table V
08-19    5-28-2019   TSO, Table V
09-19    6-11-2019   TSO, Table II
10-19    6-11-2019   TSO, Table IV
11-19    6-11-2019   TSO, Table IV
12-19    6-11-2019   30.65
13-19    6-28-2019   TSO, Table IV
15-19    8-13-2019   TSO, Table II
16-19    8-13-2019   150.021
17-19    8-27-2019   TSO, Table IV
18-19    8-27-2019   91.41
19-19    9-24-2019   52.01
20-19    10-22-2019  TSO, Table VI
21-19    10-22-2019  54.57
22-19    11-12-2019  TSO, Table II
25-19    11-26-2019  111.040
26-19    12-23-2019  TSO, Table IV
27-19    12-23-2019  TSO, Table IV
01-20    1-14-2020   Adopting Ordinance
02-20    2-11-2020   TSO, Table IV
03-20    2-25-2020   Ch. 79, Sch. II
04-20    3-10-2020   33.40
05-20    3-10-2020   TSO, Table IV
06-20    6-23-2020   TSO, Table II
08-20    8-11-2020   31.222
09-20    8-11-2020   31.223
10-20    8-25-2020   111.020
11-20    10-13-2020  TSO, Table II
12-20    10-13-2020  34.105
01-21    1-12-2021   TSO, Table IV
02-21    2-9-2021    Adopting Ordinance
03-21    2-9-2021    TSO, Table II
04-21    3-9-2021    TSO, Table I
05-21    4-13-2021   110.066
07-21    6-8-2021    TSO, Table IV
09-21    7-13-2021   53.014
09-21A   8-2-2021    35.008
10-21    8-2-2021    TSO, Table IV
11-21    9-14-2021   34.105
13-21    11-23-2021  TSO IV
14-21    11-23-2021  TSO II
14-21A   12-14-2021  TSO IV
01-22    1-25-2022   TSO IV
02-22    2-24-2022   33.28
03-22    3-8-2022    Adopting Ordinance
04-22    3-8-2022    50.17
05-22    3-8-2022    TSO II
06-22    4-12-2022   TSO II
10-22    9-15-2022   TSO IV
11-22    9-27-2022   134.041
14-22    11-9-2022   52.08
                     53.029,
15-22    11-9-2022   53.064,
                     54.17
                     54.15,
01-23    1-10-2023   55.031,
                     55.052
04-23    4-11-2023   96.069
05-23    4-25-2023   TSO IV
06-23    4-25-2023   TSO IV
07-23    5-23-2023   TSO II
09-23    6-14-2023   150.111
10-23    7-11-2023   TSO IV
12-23    8-8-2023    TSO IV
13-23    9-12-2023   77.01,
                     77.02
14-23    9-26-2023   TSO IV
15-23    10-10-2023  54.15
16-23    10-24-2023  111.040
01-24    1-9-2024    Adopting Ordinance
02-24    1-23-2024   TSO IV
03-24    1-23-2024   TSO IV
04-24    1-23-2024   94.01,
                     94.07
05-24    2-13-2024   TSO III
06-24    1-10-2023   TSO V
07--24   10-24-2023  TSO V
08-24    10-24-2023  TSO V
09-24    5-28-2024   95.40
10-24    6-11-2024   TSO IV
12-24    4-9-2024    TSO V
13-24    4-9-2024    TSO V
14-24    9-24-2024   31.222
15-24    9-24-2024   31.223
16-24    9-24-2024   35.175—
                     35.179
17-24    9-24-2024   TSO IV
18-24    10-8-2024   150.085
19-24    11-12-2024  TSO II
                    
 
