KANSAS, IL
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Kansas beginning in November 2022. The table includes links to the
ordinances (as maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected
(where applicable). For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to
November 2022, please contact the Village.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out and are not available in a PDF format for viewing.
 
Jump to:
2022 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
 
Ord. No.    Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                       Amending and repealing various provisions
Series_2022 11-18-2022  
                       Sections affected:
                       Amending 131.20, 132.05; Repealing 34.20 - 34.25; 134.07
                      
                      
                      
 
 
KANSAS, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 11-18-2022
State legislation current through ALS 2022 Pamphlet No. 5
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings and catchlines
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Acceptance
   
10.19   Code alteration
   
10.20   Jurisdiction
   
10.21   Public utility ordinances
   
10.22   Court proceedings
   
10.23   Village Clerk’s certificate
General Penalty
   
10.35   Revocation of license
   
10.36   Application of penalty
   
10.37   Liability of officers
 
   
10.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this village code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official “Revised Code
of Ordinances of the Village”. The revised code of ordinances shall be known
and cited as the “Village Code”, and it is hereby published by authority of the
Village Board and shall be kept up-to-date as provided in §
10.06(D) under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for said Village
Board. Any reference to the numbers of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and article heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as
well as to the section itself when reference is made to this village code by
title in any legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.1)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD. Unless otherwise indicated, shall mean the Village Board of Trustees
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of
Kansas.
   CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The “Revised Code of
Ordinances” of the Village of Kansas, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and the Village Board of Trustees of the
Village of Kansas, Illinois.
   COUNTY. The County of Edgar, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Edgar County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
village”.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the village for carrying on of a
business, profession, or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village shall begin on April 1 of each
year and end on March 31 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the Village
Board in the employee agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   MAYOR. The Village President or President of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT, and NEGLIGENTLY. Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village, or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
the community.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
village”.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of the village business, except during applicable Daylight Savings
Time set by national or state standards when the official time shall be
advanced one hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings
or other premises maintained by or at the expense of the village shall be set
and run at the official time prescribed by this definition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   OPERATOR. As used in this code shall mean the person who is in charge of any
operation, business, or profession.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land shall include any part-owner,
joint-owner, tenant-in-common, joint-tenant, or lessee of the whole or of a
part of such building or land.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   POLICE FORCE. Includes those persons in the employ of a village as members
of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be appointed and sworn
as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Kansas.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers, and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Unless otherwise specifically defined shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. Unless otherwise indicated, the State of Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Article VII, § 1 of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Kansas, Illionis.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another
or to acquire an advantage.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person or, in case he or she is
unable to write, by his or her proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-14)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “year of our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS AND CATCHLINES.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed part of the text of any section.
   (B)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to the titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-15)
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   (a)   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or
persons, any single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used.
         (b)   When any subject matter, party, or person is referred to in this
code by words importing the singular number only or the masculine gender,
several matters, parties, or persons and females, as well as males and bodies
corporate, shall be deemed to be included; provided that these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains
any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter
or content may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.13)
      (2)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (3)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
   (D)   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the article, chapter,
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the village code on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.3)
   (E)   All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of
this code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being
still in force or are, by necessary implication, herein reserved from repeal,
from which are excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
severable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.11)
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed
expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of
       Information Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.18 ACCEPTANCE.
   This code as hereby presented in printed form shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.06(E).
(Prior Code, § 1.1.2)
§ 10.19 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace,
or deface in any way, any section or any page of this code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted.
   (B)   Replacement pages may be inserted according to the official
instructions when so authorized by the Village Board.
   (C)   The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly inserted
in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (D)   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner.
   (E)   He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the Village Clerk.
   (F)   The code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk upon termination of office or separation
of duties.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.4)
§ 10.20 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Provisions of this code also apply to acts performed outside the
corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law, where the law confers
power on the village to regulate such particular acts outside the corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.5)
§ 10.21 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service, or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of §
10.06(E), except as this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or
ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.9)
§ 10.22 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment so incurred takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter
shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far
as practicable.
      (2)   If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying, or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.1.10)
§ 10.23 VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE.
   The Village Clerk’s certificate shall be substantially in the following
form:
 
VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF EDGAR ) ss.                         VILLAGE CLERK’S OFFICE
VILLAGE OF KANSAS
I, __________________, Village Clerk of the Village of Kansas, Illinois, do hereby certify that the following
“Revised Code of Ordinances of the Village of Kansas, Illinois of 20__,” published by authority of the Village
Board of Trustees were duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Kansas, Illinois approved by
the Mayor and published in book form according to law on this date and that these ordinances are true and perfect
copies of the ordinances as passed and approved and now of record and on file in my office as provided by law.
In witness whereof, I have set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the Village of Kansas, Illinois this
________ day of __________, 20__.
                                          ______________________________
                                          Village Clerk
                                          Village of Kansas, Illinois
(SEAL)
 
(Prior Code, § 1.1.12)
GENERAL PENALTY
§ 10.35 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him or her by the village may be revoked by the
court or by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-21)
§ 10.36 APPLICATION OF PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty provided in this subchapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were part of each and every separate
section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where
any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a
continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
   (B)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this subchapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-22)
§ 10.37 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-23)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation under any section of this code
shall be fined a minimum of $250, with the sum not to exceed $1,500 for any one
offense.
   (B)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by this state convicted of a
violation of any section of this code shall be fined a minimum of $25 and a sum
not to exceed $500 for any one offense, but may not be confined, except by
provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-20) (Ord. passed - -2017)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as that theretofor
provided and used by the village. It shall be circular in form with the words,
“The Corporate Seal of the Village of”, in the exterior circle, and the words,
“Kansas, Illinois”, in the center.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the Village Clerk who shall be the legal
custodian.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-18)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   ORDINANCES AND OTHER LEGISLATION
      
32.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Elections
   
30.02   Municipal officers – regulations
   
30.03   Residency requirements
   
30.04   Bonds of village officers
   
30.05   Village offices consolidated
   
30.06   Contracts
   
30.07   Salaries regulation
   
30.08   Claims
   
30.09   Fiscal year
   
30.10   Municipal year
   
30.11   Expenses – reimbursement
   
30.12   Village records
   
30.13   Pecuniary interests in contracts prohibited
   
30.14   Federal old age and survivor’s insurance system
Village Board of Trustees
   
30.25   Composition and general powers
   
30.26   Compensation
   
30.27   Regular meetings
   
30.28   Special meetings
   
30.29   Vacancy
   
30.30   Committees
   
30.31   Special committees
   
30.32   Quorum
   
30.33   Members refusing to attend
   
30.34   Rules of the Board
Mayor
   
30.45   Election
   
30.46   Vacancy
   
30.47   Supervisory powers
   
30.48   Appointment of officers
   
30.49   Removal of officers
   
30.50   Designation of officers’ duties
   
30.51   Mayor pro-tem
   
30.52   Signature
   
30.53   Formal occasions
   
30.54   General duties
   
30.55   Release of prisoners
   
30.56   Business License Commissioner
   
30.57   Health Commissioner
   
30.58   Deciding vote – Mayor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-2-
1 et seq., and Ch. 46 concerning municipal elections shall govern the conduct
of the village elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials
shall occur at the first regular or special meeting of the Village Board
following the consolidated election in April once the ballots have been
canvassed and approved by the governing official.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-19)
§ 30.02 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS – REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this division shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village, regardless of the time of creation of
the office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or
employee.
   (B)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Village
Board, upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (C)   Offices vacated by removal. Any officer of the municipality who leaves
the municipality with the intention of permanently residing outside the limits
thereof shall be deemed to have vacated his or her office.
   (D)   Leaves of absence. Any officer desiring to be temporarily absent from
the municipality shall apply to the Mayor for a leave of absence which may, in
the discretion of the Mayor, be granted in writing for any time and, when
granted, shall be filed with the Clerk.
   (E)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor all books, papers, furniture, and other
things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the village.
Within five days after notification and request, any person who has been an
officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his or her successor in
office all property, books, and effects in his or her possession belonging to
the municipality or pertaining to the office he or she has held. Upon his or
her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages caused thereby
and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (F)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times, when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor, or any committee or member of the Board.
   (G)   Fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled to charge or
receive any fees as agent of the village.
   (H)   Report of fees. All officers of the village entitled to receive fees
shall keep a correct account thereof and make a report thereof, under oath, to
the Village Board prior to the regular meeting of each month. In the report,
they shall specify from whom such fees were received, for what service, and
when received. All fees received shall be paid over into the Village Treasury.
   (I)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the village shall
perform such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as
the Board may provide by law.
   (J)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
      “I, _________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of Illinois
and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
_________________________, according to the best of my ability.”
(Prior Code, § 1-2-20)
§ 30.03 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall be eligible to any municipal office unless he or she is a
qualified elector of the municipality and has resided therein at least one year
next preceding his or her election or appointment. However, these requirements
shall not apply to the municipal engineer, municipal attorney, or other
officers who require technical training or knowledge. However, no person shall
be eligible to any municipal office who is a defaulter to the municipality.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-14-1) (Prior Code, § 1-2-21)
§ 30.04 BONDS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of the village officers required under Ill. Rev. Stat.,
Ch. 24, § 3-14-3 shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $50,000;
      (2)   Village Treasurer: $50,000; and
      (3)   Village Clerk: $100,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
(III. Rev. Stat, Ch. 103, § 16)
   (C)   Surety. The Village Board shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the Village Board, any one of the Trustees, or any
elected or appointed officer of the village appear as bondsperson or security.
If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by
the Village Board, or if any bondsperson, after becoming such, is elected or
appointed to any village office, this section shall not act as a release of any
such obligation incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-22)
§ 30.05 VILLAGE OFFICES CONSOLIDATED.
   (A)   The Village Board may, from time to time, by law, impose upon any
officer filling any office created by the ordinances of the village, any such
other or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of this state, and
may consolidate any two or more of the offices and impose the duties thereof
upon any other officer and may make any such regulations respecting such
offices as shall be consistent with the laws of this state.
   (B)   In case the Village Board consolidates any offices created by it, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he or
she would not have been entitled to receive if such consolidation had not taken
place.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.23)
§ 30.06 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   All contracts for purchases by the village shall be in compliance with
the statutes of the state.
   (B)   Any work or public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or by special taxation when the expense thereof
will exceed $10,000 shall be constructed either:
      (1)   By a contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after
advertising for bids in the manner prescribed by ordinance and statutes, except
that any such contract may be entered into by the proper officers without
advertising for bids if authorized vote of two-thirds of all Trustees then
holding office; and
      (2)   If authorized by a vote of two-thirds of all the Trustees or
Boardmembers then holding office, the Superintendent shall supervise and cause
to be carried out the construction of the work or other public improvement and
shall employ, exclusively for the performance of all manual labor therein,
laborers or artisans whom the municipality shall pay by the day or hour; and
all material of the value of $10,000 and upward used in the construction of the
work or the public improvement shall be purchased by contract let to the lowest
responsible bidder in the manner prescribed by the code of the village.
However, nothing contained in this chapter shall apply to any contract with the
village, with the federal government, or agents thereof.
   (C)   The LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER does not mean the lowest bidder
financially only, but shall mean the bidder who, by experience and other
qualifications, is deemed most capable of performing the work required in a
satisfactory manner.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 8-9-1 and 8-9-2) (Prior Code, § 1.2.24)
§ 30.07 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-13-1) (Prior Code, § 1.2.25)
Editor’s Note:
   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in the
appropriation ordinance.
    The salary of elected officials must be established in an ordinance other
than the appropriation ordinance.
§ 30.08 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the village for goods purchased,
damages, or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance must be presented at least one day
prior to the meeting of each month to the Village Clerk. All such claims must
be in writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the Village Board from passing on
any claims not previously presented to the Village Clerk, if, in the opinion of
the Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.26)
§ 30.09 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin April l and end on the following
March 31.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 1-1-2) (Prior Code, § 1.2.27)
§ 30.10 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on the following
April 30. No appointments shall be made during the last month of the municipal
year in the year of a mayoral election.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.28)
§ 30.11 EXPENSES - REIMBURSEMENT.
   Any municipal officer or employee is entitled to reimbursement for any
reasonable actual expenses incurred by him or her in the performance of his or
her duties.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-13-5 to 3-13-7) (Prior Code, § 1.2.29)
§ 30.12 VILLAGE RECORDS.
   All official records, including the village corporate seal, shall be kept in
the Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.30)
§ 30.13 PECUNIARY INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS PROHIBITED.
   No municipal officer shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in any
contract, work, or business which:
   (A)   Belongs to the municipality;
   (B)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
   (C)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.31)
§ 30.14 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the village, eligible
under the Federal Act, except persons elected to office by popular election and
also the Village Treasurer and Village Attorney.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required to be made in the amounts and at such times as
may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall
be paid over to the state agency in such amounts and at such times as are
designated by state laws or regulations.
(#1-74; 03-06-74) (Prior Code, § 1.2.32)
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.25 COMPOSITION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Village Board shall consist of six Trustees, elected in conformity with
this code and state law governing elections in villages, and shall have such
powers as are granted by Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, as amended. The term of
office shall be for four years or until his or her successors are elected and
have qualified.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-4-7, 3-11-9) (Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 30.26 COMPENSATION.
   Each Trustee shall receive a salary as provided in §
31.01. Each Trustee shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses
incurred by him or her in the performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 30.27 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the
Village Hall building on the first and third Wednesday of each month at 7:30
p.m. When the meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be
held on the following Thursday at the same hour and place, unless otherwise
designated. Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as may be determined
by the Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 30.28 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Village Board may be called by the Mayor or
any three Trustees by giving at least 24 hours notice thereof, by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the time of such meeting at the
residences of the Trustees.
   (B)   Such notices shall be served by mail, by the Chief of Police, or his
or her designated representative. Said notices shall specify the purpose of
said special meeting and the business to be taken up at that time and place.
Such notice shall be posted at the Village Hall and shall be provided to any
local station that has filed an annual request for such notice. Said notice
shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as said notice is given
to the Mayor and members of the Village Board, provided such news media has
given the village an address within the village at which such notice may be
given.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-11-13; Ch. 102, §§ 42.02, 42.03) (Prior Code, §
1-2-4)
§ 30.29 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs, if more than 28 months remain in the term and the
vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the next consolidated election,
the office shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by special
election at that consolidated election. During the period from the time that
the vacancy occurs until the next election of Trustees, the vacancy may be
filled by the appointment of a Trustee by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 30.30 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees of the Village Board are hereby
established, to-wit:
      (1)   Finance and budget;
      (2)   Street and alley;
      (3)   Sanitation and drainage;
      (4)   Health and safety;
      (5)   Utilities;
      (6)   Police and traffic; and
      (7)   Public property
   (B)   The committees shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board of Trustees. This appointment shall be done within
30 days of the last election.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the ex-officio Chairperson of each and every
standing committee.
   (D)   The first named Trustee of each committee shall be the Chairperson.
   (E)   So far as is practicable, reports of committees shall be in writing.
   (F)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Board shall be
deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the same after
the report is made, upon the request of any two Trustees present.
   (G)   Each standing committee of the Village Board shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the department of municipal government with
which it is connected; shall ascertain the condition and needs of said
department; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village
Board so that a full understanding thereof may be had; and, generally, shall do
all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 30.31 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Trustees as may be needed from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
§ 30.32 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the Village Board, a majority of the corporate
authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if
no such quorum attends such meeting of the Board, the Trustees may adjourn,
from day to day, until a quorum is present; and shall have power to compel the
attendance of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to
attend such meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-8)
Editor’s Note:
   When the Board has a Mayor and six Trustees, a quorum is four, which may
consist of the Mayor and three Trustees or four Trustees.
§ 30.33 MEMBERS REFUSING TO ATTEND.
   Any member of the Village Board who shall neglect or refuse to attend any
meeting of the Village Board without good and sufficient excuse to be passed
upon by the Village Board shall not receive compensation for said meeting under
the provisions of this chapter. Any member who has missed six consecutive
meetings without just cause or permission shall be subject to dismissal of the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-9)
§ 30.34 RULES OF THE BOARD.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the Village Board.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-11-11)
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   Review of minutes;
         (d)   Citizens;
         (e)   Special communications;
         (f)   Petitions;
         (g)   Resignations;
         (h)   Appointments;
         (i)   Resolutions;
         (j)   Report of officers;
         (k)   Treasurer’s report;
         (l)   Bills;
         (m)   Report of standing committees;
         (n)   Report of special committees;
         (o)   Unfinished business; and
         (p)   New business
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chairperson without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
Trustees, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting the
question, no member shall walk across or out of the Board Chamber. Every
member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or seconding the same,
shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the
Chairperson. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the question under
debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the motives of any
other Trustee’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Board shall address
that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized by the
presiding officer.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a Trustee wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance, or other original
matter, he or she shall send it to the desk of the Clerk who shall read such
matter when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate. No Trustee shall speak more than once on the same question,
except by consent of the presiding officer, or unless three-fourths of the
corporate authorities agree to one’s right to debate should be limited to speak
only once, and then not until every other Trustee desiring to speak shall have
had an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the proponent of the
matter under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open
and close debate.
Editor’s Note:
   No Trustee shall speak longer than ten minutes at any one time, except by
consent of the Village Board; and in closing debate on any question, as above
provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes, except by special
consent of the Board. The Village Board, by motion, may limit debate. The
presiding officer shall have the right to participate in debate discussion, nor
pass between the speaker and the Chairperson.
   (G)   Call of trustees to order. A Trustee, when called to order by the
Chairperson, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and
the order or ruling of the Chairperson shall be binding and conclusive, subject
only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the chair. Any Trustee may appeal to the
Board from a ruling of the Chairperson, and if the appeal is seconded, the
Trustee making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same, and
the Chairperson may briefly explain his or her ruling; but there shall be no
debate on the appeal and no other person shall participate in the discussion.
The presiding officer shall have the right to participate in debate. The
Chairperson shall then put the question: “Shall the decision of the Chairperson
be sustained?” If a majority of the Trustees present vote “no”, the decision of
the Chairperson shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned, or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every other member who shall be present when a question is
stated for the Chairperson shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board, or
unless he or she is personally interested in the question, in which case, he or
she shall not vote.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the Village Board may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Trustees present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it is seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Board, except motions of procedure shall be reduced to
writing, if required by a member, and the one proposed of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Trustees, by a majority vote of the Trustees
present, may divide such question.
   (N)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Trustee moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (O)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (P)   Precedence of motions. When a question is under debate, the following
motions shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order,
as listed:
      (1)   To adjourn to a day certain;
      (2)   To adjourn;
      (3)   To take a recess;
      (4)   To lay on the table;
      (5)   The previous question;
      (6)   To refer;
      (7)   To amend;
      (8)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
      (9)   To defer or postpone (without reference of time); and
      (10)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
   (Q)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the Village Board shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When a Trustee is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be. The Village Board
may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular meetings on a vote of a
majority of all the Trustees authorized by law to be elected.
   (R)   Previous question. When the previous question moved on the main
question and was seconded, it shall be put in this form: “Shall the main
question now be put?” If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all
further motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without
delay upon the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main
question.
   (S)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table. A motion
simply to lay the question on the table shall not be debatable, but a motion to
lay on the table and publish, or with any other condition, shall be subject to
amendment and debate. A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the
table may be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition
was laid in upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Trustees vote therefor.
A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table shall apply
to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main question or other
pending question may be laid on the table and neither the main question nor
such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (T)   Indefinite postponement – motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time. When consideration of a motion or other proposition is
postponed indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting. A
motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question to debate. A
motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall not be
construed to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general
attributes so far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone
indefinitely or to a time certain.
   (U)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (V)   Motion to amend. A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but
one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained. An
amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order, but an
amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order. On an
amendment to “strike out and insert”, the paragraph to be amended shall first
be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be stricken out, then those to
be inserted, and, finally, the paragraph as it will stand, if so amended, shall
be read. An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (W)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled, and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (X)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Trustees by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (Y)   Reconsideration. A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time
during the same meeting, or at the first regular meeting thereafter. A motion
for reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not
be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered. A motion to
reconsider must be made and seconded by Trustees who voted on the prevailing
side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise provided by law;
provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority vote in the
affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the grounds that a greater number
of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or adoption of such
motion, then, in such case, a motion to reconsider may be made and seconded
only by those who voted in the affirmative on such question to be reconsidered.
   (Z)   Adoption of Robert’s “Rules of Order Revised”. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
“Rules of Order Revised” shall govern the Board in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Board.
   (AA)   Temporary suspension of rules – amendment of rules. These rules may
be temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled by law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered, or amended,
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   (BB)   Censure of trustees – expulsion of trustees. Any Trustee acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene,
and insulting language to or about any member of the Board, or who does not
obey the order of the Chairperson shall be, on motion, censured by a majority
vote of all the members present, or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all
Trustees elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-12)
MAYOR
§ 30.45 ELECTION.
   The mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and has qualified.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-5-1) (Prior Code, § 1.2.35)
§ 30.46 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at the general municipal
election. The Village Board shall elect one of its members as “Acting Mayor”
who shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor
until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-4-6) (Prior Code, § 1.2.36)
§ 30.47 SUPERVISORY POWERS.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village, shall preside
over the meetings of the Board, and shall perform such duties as may be
required of him or her by statute or law. He or she shall have supervision over
all of the executive officers and employees of the village and shall have the
power and authority to inspect all books and records pertaining to the village
affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the village at any reasonable
time.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-11-6, 3-11-3) (Prior Code, § 1.2.37)
§ 30.48 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village whose
election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and said officers shall
hold their offices for the ensuing month or year, and until their respective
successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in an appointive
office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall issue a commission
or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to office in the
municipality.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-7-2, 3-13-10, 3-14-2) (Prior Code, § 1.2.38)
§ 30.49 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him or her
on any formal charge whenever he or she is of the opinion that the interests of
the village demand such removal. He or she shall report the reasons for such
removal to the Board at a meeting to be held not less than five days, nor more
then ten days after such removal. If the Mayor shall fail or refuse to file
with the Clerk a statement of the reasons for such removal, or if the Board, by
a two-thirds vote of all its members, authorized by law to be elected by yeas
and nays to be entered upon its record, disapproves of such removal, such
officer shall thereupon become restored to the office from which he or she was
removed, but he or she shall give a new bond and take a new oath of office. No
officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-11-1, 3-12-2) (Prior Code, § 1.2.39)
§ 30.50 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the Village Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the
power to delegate to any appointive officer, any duty which is to be performed
when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.40)
§ 30.51 MAYOR PRO-TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor which incapacitates
him or her from the performance of his or her duties, but does not create a
vacancy in the office, the Mayor shall appoint, and if he or she cannot, the
Trustees shall appoint, one of its members to act as Mayor pro-tem. The Mayor
pro-tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform his or her duties and
possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor. The Mayor may appoint an
officer to administer the affairs of the village with the advice and consent of
the Village Board whenever the Village Board considers it necessary and
expedient.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.41)
§ 30.52 SIGNATURE.
   The Mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions, permits, and
licenses granted by authority of the Board, except as otherwise provided and
such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or her official
signature.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.42)
§ 30.53 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and
receptions, but, in his or her absence or inability to attend any such
function, the Mayor may select any other village officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.43)
§ 30.54 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall perform all of the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-11-4, 3-11-6) (Prior Code, § 1.2.44)
§ 30.55 RELEASE OF PRISONERS.
   The Mayor may release any person imprisoned for violation of any village
ordinance and shall report the release with reasons therefor to the Trustees at
their first meeting thereafter.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-11-2) (Prior Code, § 1.2.45)
§ 30.56 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as the License Commissioner to issue and
revoke any and all business licenses, as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.46)
§ 30.57 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be the Health Commissioner with all powers
to abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village authority, as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.48)
§ 30.58 DECIDING VOTE – MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. He or
she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion, except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor or an
ordinance, resolution, or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the Illinois Revised Statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution,
or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor pro-tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor pro-tem.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-11-14 and 3-11-17) (Prior Code, § 1.2.49)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salaries
Village Clerk
   
31.15   Elected
   
31.16   Board minutes – records
   
31.17   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.18   Preparation of documents – commissions and licenses
   
31.19   Reports of licenses
   
31.20   License plates
   
31.21   Administration of oaths
   
31.22   Outstanding bonds
   
31.23   Reports
   
31.24   Successor
   
31.25   Payments
   
31.26   Warrant register
   
31.27   Finance
   
31.28   Notification to person elected or appointed
   
31.29   Other duties
Village Treasurer
   
31.40   Established
   
31.41   Finance Committee
   
31.42   Appointed
   
31.43   Money; warrants; accounts; payments
   
31.44   Warrant register
   
31.45   Separation of funds
   
31.46   Special assessments
   
31.47   Bookkeeping
   
31.48   Statements
   
31.49   Year-end report
   
31.50   Deposit of funds
   
31.51   Investments
Village Attorney
   
31.65   Services of Attorney
   
31.66   Appointment of Attorney
   
31.67   Duties
Associations
   
31.80   Membership; risk management association
   
31.81   Contribution to association
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SALARIES.
   (A)   Mayor. The salary of the Mayor shall be established by the annual
appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Village Clerk. The salary of the Village Clerk shall be established by
the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (C)   Utility Bill Collector. The salary of the Utility Bill Collector shall
be established by the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (D)   Trustees. The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall receive a
sum established by the annual appropriation ordinance per regular or special
meeting.
   (E)   Adjustments. The starting salaries may be adjusted based on the work
experience of personnel.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.15 ELECTED.
   The Village Clerk shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor for a
four-year term and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and has
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.52)
§ 31.16 BOARD MINUTES – RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Village Board and shall
keep in a suitable book to be styled, “The Journal of the Village Board”, a
full and faithful record of its proceedings. The Village Clerk shall record and
properly index in a book kept for that purpose all ordinances passed by the
Village Board and at the foot of the record of each ordinance so recorded, he
or she shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage, when published, and
a memorandum of the publication of such ordinance. He or she shall also record
in proper books for the purpose all official bonds and note upon each bond so
recorded when the same was entered of record and the book and pages where
recorded.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-10-7) (Prior Code, § 1.2.53)
§ 31.17 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the Village Board and
to the officers of this village all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims, and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Board on demand therefor. He or she shall also, without delay,
deliver to the Mayor all ordinances or resolutions, orders, and claims in his
or her charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the
Mayor.
(Ill. Rev. Stat, Ch. 24, § 3-10-8) (Prior Code, § 1.2.54)
§ 31.18 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS – COMMISSIONS AND LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits, and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
village.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.55)
§ 31.19 REPORTS OF LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall report to the Village Board at its regular meeting each
month and more often if the Board so requires that date contained in his or her
license register with respect to licenses issued during the previous month.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.56)
§ 31.20 LICENSE PLATES.
   In all cases where the village requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain from the Clerk plates, tags, or stickers, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such plates, tags, or stickers to the
person paying the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.57)
§ 31.21 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-9-3) (Prior Code, § 1.2.58)
§ 31.22 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose, a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued,
and when the village bonds are issued or purchased or paid or cancelled, the
book or books shall show the fact, and, in his or her annual report, the Clerk
shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of
sale, with each and every item of expense thereof.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-11-23) (Prior Code, § 1.2.59)
§ 31.23 REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the Village Board a statement or report, in writing, of all the
moneys received and warrants drawn by him or her during the preceding month,
showing therein from or what sources and on what account moneys were received,
and for what purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.60)
§ 31.24 SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office all books,
records, papers, maps, and effects of every detail and description belonging to
the village or pertaining to his or her office, and not in actual use and
possession of other village officers; and upon the expiration of his or her
official term, he or she shall deliver all such books, records, papers, and
effects to his or her successor in office.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.61)
§ 31.25 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare an itemized list of all moneys received and shall
deposit all moneys to the local financial institution and deliver a copy of the
same to the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.62)
§ 31.26 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Clerk shall keep an accurate register of warrants drawn upon the
Treasury, specifying the date, to whom payable, the amount, and the particular
fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 8-1-8) (Prior Code, § 1.2.63)
§ 31.27 FINANCE.
   Under the direction of the Finance Committee, the Clerk shall keep an open
and complete set of books in which, among other things, shall be set forth the
appropriations of the fiscal year for which each distinct object and branch of
expenditures, and also the receipts from each and every source of revenue so
far as he or she can ascertain the same.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.64)
§ 31.28 NOTIFICATION TO PERSON ELECTED OR APPOINTED.
   The Clerk, within five days after the result of an election is declared or
an appointment is made, shall notify all persons elected or appointed to office
of their election or appointment. The office becomes vacant unless the person
elected or appointed qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-2-6) (Prior Code, § 1.2.65)
§ 31.29 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him or her
by law or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.66)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.40 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the Finance Department. It shall embrace the
Committee on Finance of the Village Board and the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.71)
§ 31.41 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing Committee on Finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the condition and
needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and
Village Board so that a full understanding thereof shall be had; and,
generally, shall do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.72)
§ 31.42 APPOINTED.
   The Treasurer shall be appointed for a two-year term with the advice and
consent of the Village Board. He or she shall serve until his or her successor
is appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.73)
§ 31.43 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS; PAYMENTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to this village and
shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Village
Clerk and not otherwise, and shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give to every person paying money into the Village Treasury a receipt therefor,
specifying the date of payment, and upon what account paid, and he or she shall
file copies of such receipts with the Clerk with his or her monthly reports.
The Treasurer shall prepare daily an itemized list of all moneys received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the Village Board and shall also pay over
to the Village Treasury all moneys received by him or her and take a receipt
therefor.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-10-2 and 8-1-8) (Prior Code, § 1.2.74)
§ 31.44 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid by him
or her, showing the number, date, and amount of each, the fund from which paid,
and the name of the person to whom and when paid, and he or she shall cancel
all warrants as soon as redeemed by him or her.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 8-1-8 and 8-1-9) (Prior Code, § 1.2.75)
§ 31.45 SEPARATION OF FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall keep all moneys in his or her hands belonging to this
village separate and distinct from his or her own money, and he or she shall
not use, either directly or indirectly, the village moneys or warrants in his
or her custody and keeping for his or her own use and benefit, or that of any
other person. Any violation of this section shall subject him or her to removal
from office by the Village Board.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-10-4) (Prior Code, § 1.2.76)
§ 31.46 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
account entitled thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.77)
§ 31.47 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such a manner as
to show, with accuracy, all moneys received and disbursed by him or her for the
village, stating from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on
what account paid out, and in such a way that the books and accounts may be
readily investigated and understood, and the books and accounts and all files
and papers of his or her office shall be, at all times, open to examination by
the Mayor or the Finance Committee of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.78)
§ 31.48 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the regular
monthly meeting a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of
the municipality, as shown by his or her books up to the time of the report.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-10-15) (Prior Code, § 1.2.79)
§ 31.49 YEAR-END REPORT.
   The Treasurer shall, annually, at the close of the fiscal year, make out and
file with the Village Clerk a full and detailed report of all the receipts and
expenditures of the corporation as shown by his or her books and of his or her
transactions as such Treasurer, during the preceding fiscal year, and he or she
shall show in such report the state of the Village Treasury at the close of the
year, which report the Village Clerk shall publish as required by law.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 3-10-2 to 3-10-6) (Prior Code, § 1.2.80)
§ 31.50 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Designation by board. The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all
funds and moneys in his or her custody belonging to the village in such places
of deposit as have been designated by § 1-2-83. When requested by the
Treasurer, the corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which
may be kept the funds and moneys of the village in the custody of the
Treasurer.
   (B)   Qualifications of bank. Each bank designated as a depository for such
funds or moneys shall, while acting as such depository, furnish the corporate
authorities with a copy of all statements or resources and liabilities which it
is required to furnish to the auditor of public accounts or to the comptroller
of currency.
   (C)   Discharge of liability. The Treasurer shall be discharged from
liability for all funds or moneys which he or she deposits in a designated bank
while the funds and moneys are so deposited. If the village funds or moneys are
deposited in a designated bank, however, the amount of such deposits shall not
exceed 75% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus and the Treasurer shall be
responsible for funds or moneys deposited in the bank in excess of this
limitation.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-10-3) (Prior Code, § 1.2.81)
§ 31.51 INVESTMENTS.
   Refer to our adopted Investment Policy.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.82)
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 31.65 SERVICES OF ATTORNEY.
   The Village Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.86)
§ 31.66 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall be hired by the Village Board and shall have full charge
of the law affairs of the village, compensation for office services and advice,
and shall receive reasonable fees for other services and advice, and shall
receive reasonable fees for other services rendered when, in his or her
judgment, or in the judgment of the Mayor or Village Board, the same are
necessary or for the best interests of the village.
(III. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 3-7-3) (Prior Code, § 1.2.87)
§ 31.67 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for village. The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend,
on behalf of the village, in all cases in which the interests of the
corporation or any officer thereof are involved; and the Village Clerk shall
furnish him or her with certified copies of any ordinance, bond, or paper in
his or her keeping necessary to be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. He or she shall, when required, advise the
Village Board or any officer in all matters of law in which the interests of
the corporation are involved, and he or she shall draw such ordinances, bonds,
forms, and contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required of
him or her by the Mayor, the Village Board, or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. He or she shall direct executions to be issued upon all
judgments recovered in favor of the village, and he or she shall direct their
prompt service. He or she shall examine all the bills of the officers of
courts, and of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their
correctness and the liability of the village therefor.
   (D)   Commissions. The Village Attorney shall act as the legal advisor for
the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Plan Commission and he or she shall perform
the legal services required of said Commissions.
   (E)   Violation of ordinances. He or she shall institute and prosecute an
action in every case of violation of a village ordinance, when instructed to do
so by the Mayor, Village Board, or any committee thereof.
   (F)   Prosecution of suits. He or she shall institute and prosecute any suit
or action arising under the ordinances of the village when, upon investigation
of the same, he or she shall become satisfied that the complaint was instituted
maliciously, or without just cause; and he or she shall dismiss or discontinue
any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he or she may deem just or
equitable.
   (G)   Collection of taxes. He or she is hereby authorized and instructed to
enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the village is interested and to attend all sales of real
or personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments and to bid thereat in behalf of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1.2.88)
ASSOCIATIONS
§ 31.80 MEMBERSHIP; RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION.
   The Village Board does hereby authorize and approve membership in the State
Municipal League Risk Management Association and directs the Mayor and Village
Clerk to execute an Intergovernmental Cooperation Contract with the State
Municipal League Risk Management Association for membership for a period of one
year beginning the date the Association commences providing risk coverage to
its members and each year thereafter unless this subchapter is repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 31.81 CONTRIBUTION TO ASSOCIATION.
   Each member hereby agrees to contribute to the Association a sum of money to
be determined by the Association at the time of application, based on the needs
of the Association and the loss experience of the member, which sum shall
constitute the cost of the member’s first year’s contribution for second and
subsequent years shall be calculated in accordance with the loss experience of
the village and the needs of the Association, including total losses and
expenditures of the Self-Insured Retention Fund of the Association.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
CHAPTER 32: ORDINANCES AND OTHER LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances
   
32.01   Attorney
   
32.02   Introduced
   
32.03   Passage of yeas and nays - record
   
32.04   Approval and veto
   
32.05   Reconsideration – passing over veto
ORDINANCES
§ 32.01 ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare such ordinances as
may be required by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 32.02 INTRODUCED.
   When an ordinance is introduced, it shall be read one time and referred to
the proper committee, unless the Board shall otherwise specifically direct.
Upon a majority vote of two-thirds of all Trustees, this rule may be suspended
and the ordinance may be read by title only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 32.03 PASSAGE OF YEAS AND NAYS – RECORD.
   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances, and on
all propositions to create any liability against the village, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and all other cases at the request
of any member and entered on the journal of its proceeding and the concurrence
of a majority of all the members elected in the Village Board shall be
necessary for the passage of any such ordinance or proposition; provided it
shall require three-fourths of the Trustees to sell any village property.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 32.04 APPROVAL AND VETO.
   All ordinances passed by the Village Board shall, before they take effect,
be deposited in the office of the Village Clerk, and, if the Mayor approves
thereof, he or she shall sign the same, and such as he or she shall not
approve, he or she shall return the Village Board with his or her objections
thereto in writing at the next regular meeting of the Village Board occurring
no less than five days after the passage thereof. Such veto may extend to any
one or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance making an
appropriation or to the entire ordinance; and in case the vote only extends to
a part of such ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and be in
force. However, in case the Mayor shall fail to return any ordinance with his
or her objections thereto by the time aforesaid, he or she shall be deemed to
have approved such ordinance and the same shall take effect accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 32.05 RECONSIDERATION – PASSING OVER VETO.
   Upon the return of any ordinance by the Mayor, the vote by which the same
has passed shall be reconsidered by the Village Board, and, if after such
reconsideration, two-thirds of all the members elected to the Village Board
shall agree by yeas and nays to pass the same, it shall go into effect,
notwithstanding the Mayor may refuse to approve thereof. The vote to pass the
same over the Mayor’s veto shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered in the
journal of minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
State Gift Ban
   
33.01   Adoption of Act
   
33.02   Ethics officer
   
33.03   State Legislative Ethics Commission; complaints
   
33.04   Future amendments to the State Gift Ban Act
   
33.05   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
33.20   Adoption by reference
Sexual Harassment
   
33.35   Prohibited behavior
   
33.36   Definition
   
33.37   Procedure for reporting an allegation
   
33.38   Retaliation for reporting prohibited
   
33.39   Consequences of violation
   
33.40   Consequences for knowingly making false report
STATE GIFT BAN
§ 33.01 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425 et seq.) is hereby adopted, as
required by § 83 of the Act (5 ILCS 425/83).
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the village. All non-salaried appointed or elected officials
are exempted from the Act and the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-19-1999)
§ 33.02 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by § 35 of the
Act (5 ILCS 425/35), the Village President is appointed to serve as the “Ethics
Officer” of the village. The Ethics Officer’s duties shall be as provided in §
35 of the Act.
(Ord. passed 5-19-1999)
§ 33.03 STATE LEGISLATIVE ETHICS COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the Act and this subchapter shall be filed
with the State Legislative Ethics Commission (created by § 45(a)(6) of the
Act).
(Ord. passed 5-19-1999)
§ 33.04 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO THE STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) that becomes
effective after the passage of the ordinance incorporated in this subchapter
shall be incorporated in this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable
to the solicitation and acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. passed 5-19-1999)
§ 33.05 FUTURE DECLARATION OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5ILCS
425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this subchapter shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The subchapter shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village of
the Act if found unconstitutional by the state’s Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of
the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the
remainder of the Act, as adopted by this subchapter, shall remain in full force
and effect; however, that part of this subchapter relating to the part of the
Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. passed 5-19-1999)
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
§ 33.20 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   This code is hereby amended to add the following section, which shall read
in its entirety as follows.
   (A)   The regulations of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act § 5-15
(5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40), 5 ILCS 430/
1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section), are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the
village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of the section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering, and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the state Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed at the date that the state
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the state Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the state Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act, as adopted by
this section, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2004)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
§ 33.35 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the village to prohibit harassment
of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal
officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 33.36 DEFINITION.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines SEXUAL HARASSMENT as any
unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual;
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment; and/or
      (4)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature;
         (b)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises;
         (c)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites;
         (d)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault; and
         (e)   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
   (B)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person.”
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 33.37 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION.
   (A)   (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or
his position to the offending employee, and her or his immediate supervisor. It
is not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo; and/or
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator or the chief executive officer of the municipality.
   (B)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
   (C)   The purpose of this policy is to establish prompt, thorough and
effective procedures for responding to every report and incident so that
problems can be identified and remedied by the municipality. However, all
municipal employees have the right to contact the Illinois Department of Human
Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for
information regarding filing a formal complaint with those entities. An IDHR
complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is
a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must be filed within 300 days.
   (D)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (E)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 33.38 RETALIATION FOR REPORTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, state agency or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire, to
retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge – due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of
the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 33.39 CONSEQUENCES OF VIOLATION.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be
subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 33.40 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law enforcement official is
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Civil Emergency
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Declaration of emergency
   
34.03   Curfew
   
34.04   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
34.05   Effectiveness
   
34.06   Notification
CIVIL EMERGENCY
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A “riot or unlawful assembly” characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority of law; or
      (2)   Any “natural disaster” or “human-made calamity”, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 34.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever a civil emergency, as defined in §
34.01, exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 34.03 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole, as he or she deems advisable, and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 34.04 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor of the village may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 34.05 EFFECTIVENESS.
   (A)   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of
48 hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating
that the civil emergency no longer exists.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil
emergency at the end of each 48-hour period during the time the civil emergency
exists.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 34.06 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village:
   (A)   The Village Hall;
   (B)   The post office;
   (C)   The county courthouse; and
   (D)   The community schools.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-6)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Department established
   
35.02   Office of Chief created
   
35.03   Duties of Chief
   
35.04   Appointment
   
35.05   Salary
   
35.06   Duties
   
35.07   Mutual aid contract
   
35.08   Appointment of patrolperson
   
35.09   Special police officer
   
35.10   Legal processes
   
35.11   Assisting police officer
   
35.12   Aiding Fire Department
   
35.13   Failure to perform
   
35.14   Aiding in escape
   
35.15   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
35.16   Witness fees
   
35.17   Rules and regulations
   
35.18   Stolen property
   
35.19   Training
   
35.20   Compensation
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Committee
shall govern policy and procedure of the Police Department. The Police
Department shall be under the control and supervision of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 35.02 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby established the office of the Chief of Police. The Chief
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-2)
§ 35.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of his or her department as may be required. The Chief shall be
responsible for the performance of the Police Department, of all its functions,
and all persons who are members of the Department shall serve subject to the
orders of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 35.04 APPOINTMENT.
   A sufficient number of patrolpeople shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the advice and consent of Police Committee. A police officer may be
appointed to office by the Mayor and Village Board if he or she meets the
necessary qualifications, notwithstanding the fact that the police officer is
not a resident of the village when appointed or when he or she is to serve as
such an official.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 35.05 SALARY.
   They shall receive such compensation as may be provided by the ordinances of
the village or by resolution of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 35.06 DUTIES.
   (A)   The police officer shall devote his or her entire time to the
performance of the duties of his or her office, and is hereby charged with the
preservation of the peace, order, and safety of the village, and with the duty
of protecting the rights of persons and property, and of enforcing all laws and
also all orders of the Village Board.
   (B)   He or she shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions, and
defects on the highways or other public places, and shall cause the same to be
abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer
whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
   (C)   He or she shall attend, when requested by the Mayor, either in person
or by deputy, all meetings of the Village Board, execute all its orders and
close the Board Chamber upon the adjournment of that body. He or she shall also
execute all warrants or other legal process required to be executed by him or
her under any ordinance of the village or laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 35.07 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the Village Board, may enter
into an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 35.08 APPOINTMENT OF PATROLPERSON.
   A sufficient number of patrolpeople shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the advice and consent of the Village Board, and they shall severally hold
office from year to year, or until the appointment and qualification of their
respective successors and shall each, before entering into the performance of
their duties, take the oath or affirmation required by law.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-8)
§ 35.09 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICER.
   The Mayor may, on special occasions when, in his or her judgment, for public
peace and order of the village, shall require, appoint, and commission any
number of special police officers as may be necessary and shall fix, in order
of their appointment, the time during which each shall serve and all such
special police officers, during such time, shall possess the powers and
exercise the duties of regular police patrolperson; provided that their
appointment, if for more than ten days, shall be subject to the consent of the
Village Board in the manner that other appointments to office by the Mayor are
subject. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with the
permission of the Chief of Police of the village, and then only when in uniform
and in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 35.10 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute village warrants to
other like legal process without the corporate limits of the village and within
such distance therefrom as authorized by law, in all cases when any ordinances
of the Village Board made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty for the
violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting, or doing
business within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 35.11 ASSISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   Every police officer of the village may, at any time, call upon any able-
bodied person above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting or
retaking or holding in custody of any person guilty of having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 35.12 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighter shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 35.13 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by the code of the village or the rules and
regulations of the Department, or who shall, in the discharge of his or her
official duties, be guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions, or
willful wrong or injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-13)
§ 35.14 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in this village to resist or obstruct
any member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or to
endeavor to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any
member of the police force to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody
or to attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-14)
§ 35.15 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the village shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor
of any kind and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for removal.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 35.16 WITNESS FEES.
   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever this
is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any state
or federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as
witness in any action or suit to which the village is a party; and fees paid
for such services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall
deposit the same with the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 35.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Committee, along with the Chief of Police, may make or prescribe
such rules and regulations for the conduct and guidance of the member of the
Police Department as they shall deem advisable, and such rules, when approved
by the Mayor, shall be binding on such members.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 35.18 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the village.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-18)
§ 35.19 TRAINING.
   Auxiliary police officers, prior to entering upon any of his or her duties,
shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police
procedures by the Chief of Police of the village. Such courses of training
shall be not less than 40 hours in duration. Upon completion of the course of
training, the Chief of Police shall file a certificate attesting to the
auxiliary police officer’s completion of said course with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-19)
§ 35.20 COMPENSATION.
   Auxiliary police officers shall receive such hourly compensation for their
services as determined by the corporate authorities, provided such services are
performed at the direction of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-20)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Rights and Responsibilities Related to Taxes
   
36.001   Title
   
36.002   Scope
   
36.003   Definitions
   
36.004   Notices
   
36.005   Late payment
   
36.006   Payment
   
36.007   Certain credits and refunds
   
36.008   Audit procedure
   
36.009   Appeal
   
36.010   Hearing
   
36.011   Interest and penalties
   
36.012   Abatement
   
36.013   Installment contracts
   
36.014   Statute of limitations
   
36.015   Voluntary disclosure
   
36.016   Publication of tax ordinance
   
36.017   Review procedure
   
36.018   Application
General Taxes
   
36.030   Corporate rate
   
36.031   Police tax
   
36.032   Fire tax
Sales Tax
   
36.045   Service occupation tax
   
36.046   M.R.O. tax
   
36.047   Use tax
Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
36.060   Conformance
   
36.061   Required reports
   
36.062   Fees
   
36.063   Unlawful operation
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
36.075   Tax imposed
   
36.076   Gas and electric tax
   
36.077   Tax in addition to other payments
   
36.078   Definitions
   
36.079   When effective
   
36.080   Reports filed
   
36.081   Overpayment
   
36.082   Action to recover
   
36.083   Failure to file returns
Electricity Tax
   
36.095   Tax imposed
   
36.096   Exceptions
   
36.097   Additional taxes
   
36.098   Collection
   
36.099   Reports to municipality
   
36.100   Credit for overpayment
 
   
36.999   Penalty
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES RELATED TO TAXES
§ 36.001 TITLE.
   The ordinance incorporated in this subchapter shall be known as, and may be
cited as, the “Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The “Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act”.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village’s President and Board of Trustees
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village on an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village’s President is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered tax.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposed any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon who the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.004 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be, in writing, mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent to the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.005 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.006 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.007 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either the refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any moneys to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of overpayment to the date
of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.008 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date of notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer is
unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.009 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrators may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.010 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
36.009, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the right of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit, or assessment.
The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall not
apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.011 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 5%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, or 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax shall be imposed.
If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the controlling tax
ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax delinquency or
notice of tax liability, then a failure to file a penalty shall be assessed
equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which
the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not
apply if a failure to file a penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.012 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.013 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owed. Upon written notice by the local
tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer shall
have 14 days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the
delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good faith in
restructuring the installment contract with the local tax administrator, the
installment contract shall be cancelled without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.014 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owed. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than a four-
year maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.015 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made no later than 90 days after the filing of the voluntary
disclosure application of the date agreed to by the local tax administrator.
However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and
interest previously paid under this section must be paid within 90 days after a
final determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount
owed or the date agreed to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.016 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCE.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance shall be made
available to the public upon request at the Village Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.017 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct and public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
§ 36.018 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the village’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. passed 12-6-2000)
GENERAL TAXES
§ 36.030 CORPORATE RATE.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the village be and the
same is hereby established at a rate of 0.2957%.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 8-3-1) (Prior Code, § 36-3-1)
§ 36.031 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the village is and the
same is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-2)
§ 36.032 FIRE TAX.
   The maximum rate for fire protection purposes of the village is and the same
is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-3)
SALES TAX
§ 36.045 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service at a rate of 3% of the
cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said serviceperson,
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident of a sale of service in accordance with the provisions of § 8-
11-5 of the Municipal Code.
   (B)   Filing. Every supplier or serviceperson required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall
file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue, required by the “Service Occupation Tax Act” § 9,
approved July 10, 1961, as amended.
   (C)   Payment. At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-1)
§ 36.046 M.R.O. TAX.
   (A)   Imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this municipality
at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of
such business while this code is in effect, in accordance with the provisions
of the Municipal Code § 8-11-1.
   (B)   Filing. Every such person engaged in such business in this
municipality shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the
report to the State Department of Revenue required by “An Act in Relation to a
Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property
to Purchasers for Use or Consumption” § 3, approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   Payment. At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from the sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-2)
§ 36.047 USE TAX.
   (A)   Imposed. A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of
the Municipal Code § 8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the municipality any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside of the state at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of the
state’s government. The tax shall be at the rate of 1% of the selling price of
such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the
Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Collection. Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the
title or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
   (C)   Filing. The Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this code no later than five days
after the effective date of this code.
   (D)   Exclusion. The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in the
Use Tax Act § 3, approved July 14, 1955, as amended, shall not apply to the
privilege of using in such municipality any item of tangible personal property
which is purchased outside of the state at retail from a retailer and which is
titled or registered with an agency of this state’s government.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 36.060 CONFORMANCE.
   All corporations, companies, and associations not incorporated under the
laws of this state, which are engaged in this municipality in effecting or
soliciting fire insurance, shall pay to the Village Treasurer on July 15 of
each and every year a sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts of premiums
received by such corporations, associations, or companies, or their agency
agent(s) for business effected or transacted for fire insurance within this
village for the year preceding July 1. The sum above named shall be as a tax or
license fee upon all such corporations, companies, or associations transacting
said business within this village.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-1)
§ 36.061 REQUIRED REPORTS.
   Every person acting as an agent, or otherwise, for or on behalf of any such
corporation, company, or association, shall, on or before July 15 of each and
every year, render to the Village Clerk a full, true, and just account,
verified by oath, of all the premiums which, during the year ending on July 1
of each and every year, shall have been received by him or her or any other
person for him or her in behalf of such corporation, company, or association,
and shall fully and specifically set out in such report, the amount or amounts
received as premiums for fire insurance.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-2)
§ 36.062 FEES.
   The said agent(s) shall also, at the time of making the above mentioned
report, pay to the Village Treasurer, the sum of 2% upon the gross receipts of
such corporation, company, or association obtained as premiums for effecting
fire insurance in this village as specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 36.063 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   If such an account be not rendered on or before the day herein specified for
that purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for the said tax or license fees
shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for any such
corporation, company, or association to transact any business of fire insurance
in this village until the requirements hereof are fully complied with, but this
provision shall not relieve any company, corporation, or association from the
payment of any such risk that may be taken in violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-4)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 36.075 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the village and not for resale at the rate of 2.5% of the gross receipts
therefrom; and
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the village and not for resale at the rate of 2.5% of the gross
receipts therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-1)
§ 36.076 GAS AND ELECTRIC TAX.
   No tax is imposed by this chapter, with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or
selling gas or electricity be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
subchapter for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the “Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act”, authorized by
the Municipal Code § 8-11-1.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-2)
§ 36.077 TAX IN ADDITION TO OTHER PAYMENTS.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value or products,
or services furnished to this village by the taxpayer as compensation for the
use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes, or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-3)
§ 36.078 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distribution, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services, and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product, or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor, or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation, or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-4)
§ 36.079 WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   The ordinance incorporated in this subchapter shall take effect after
publication and the tax provided for herein shall be based on the gross
receipts, as herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed
on or after May 1, 1984.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-5)
§ 36.080 REPORTS FILED.
   (A)   On or before the last day of June 1984, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the Village Treasurer, stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for a corresponding monthly
period.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-6)
§ 36.081 OVERPAYMENT.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-7)
§ 36.082 ACTIONS TO RECOVER.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-8)
§ 36.083 FAILURE TO FILE RETURNS.
   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return,
or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
36.075 to
36.082 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500 and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-9)
ELECTRICITY TAX
§ 36.095 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in  0.201 per kilowatt-hour
a month:
For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in  0.132 kilowatt-hour
a month:
For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in  0.119 per kilowatt-hour
a month:
For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in 0.116 per kilowatt-hour
a month:
For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in 0.112 per kilowatt-hour
a month:
For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed  0.106 per kilowatt-hour
in a month:
For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed  0.104 per kilowatt-hour
in a month:
For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed  0.102 per kilowatt-hour
in a month:
For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed 0.101 per kilowatt-hour
in a month:
For all electricity used or consumed in excess of       0.099 per kilowatt-hour
20,000,000 kilowatt-hours in a month:
 
      (2)   The tax rates set forth in the table in division (A)(1) above will
be used at least through December 31, 2008, are proportional to the rates
enumerated in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561), and do not
exceed the revenue that could have been collected during 1997 using the rates
enumerated in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561).
   (B)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth in division (A)
above shall be effective:
      (1)   On August 1, 1999 for residential customers; and
      (2)   On the earlier of:
         (a)   The last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or
         (b)   The date of the first bill issued, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-
204, for nonresidential customers.
   (C)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, Article IV, § 36-4-1 et seq. of the
Revised Code of Ordinances (commonly known as the gross receipts utility tax)
shall specifically remain in effect:
      (1)   For receipts attributable to residential customers, July 31, 1999;
and
      (2)   For receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier
of:
         (a)   Through the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or
         (b)   The date of the first bill issued to such nonresidential
customer pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be effective until August
1, 1999.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
§ 36.096 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which
the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailer’s
Occupation Tax Act, as authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
§ 36.097 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or
its business.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
§ 36.098 COLLECTION.
   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the purchaser
by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this subchapter and
any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a
debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity.
Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity
for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax, and supplying dates to the municipality upon
request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
municipality in the manner prescribed by the municipality. On or before the
last day of each month, persons delivering electricity shall make a return to
the village for the preceding month and shall, at the time of filing such
return, pay the municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
§ 36.099 REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this subchapter to a person delivering electricity as
set forth in the foregoing sections and who is not otherwise exempted from
paying such tax shall make a return to the Village Treasurer for the preceding
month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
§ 36.100 CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment, provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefore shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this §§
36.095 through
36.100 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-2)
      (1)   In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared unconstitutional,
or if the ordinance creating this amendment is voided by court action, the
provisions of §§
36.075 through
36.083 (commonly known as the “gross receipts utility tax”) shall remain in
effect in all respects as if it had never been amended by this ordinance, and
any amount paid to the village by any person delivering electricity pursuant to
this Amendatory Ordinance shall be deemed to have been paid pursuant to the
gross receipts utility tax as it existed prior to the passage of this
Amendatory Ordinance.
      (2)   The Village Clerk is authorized to publish §§
36.095 through
36.100 as provided by law.
      (3)   The ordinance incorporated in §§
36.095 through
36.100 shall become effective ten days after the date of its publication.
      (4)   Except as provided herein, §§
36.075 through
36.083, as amended, shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
Utilities Department
   
50.01   Department established
   
50.02   Committee
   
50.03   Superintendent
   
50.04   Duties of Superintendent
Rates and Regulations
   
50.15   Contract for services
   
50.16   Consumer lists
   
50.17   Liability for charges
   
50.18   Estimated charge
   
50.19   Utility deposits – rentors
Utility Extensions
   
50.30   Application
   
50.31   Plat of proposed extension
   
50.32   Engineer to prepare plans
   
50.33   Sealed bids – larger pipe required
   
50.34   Contract
UTILITIES DEPARTMENT
§ 50.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be an executive department of the village known as the Water
Department. It shall include the Superintendent and the Water Committee
appointed by the Mayor, and its employees. The designated office shall be the
Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 38.1.1)
§ 50.02 COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Village Board standing Committee on Water shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Water Department.
   (B)   It shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof; shall, from time
to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village Board so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and, generally, shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the department.
(Prior Code, § 38.1.2)
§ 50.03 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall be subject to the supervision of the
Committee on Water.
   (B)   He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of
the Village Board, and shall hold his or her office until his or her successor
shall be appointed and qualified.
   (C)   He or she shall receive such salary as may be provided by the Board at
the time of his or her appointment.
(Prior Code, § 38.1.3)
§ 50.04 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   The general duties of the Superintendent shall be to:
   (A)   Take charge of the water system and all connections and appurtenances
thereto and secure all labor, materials, tools, and implements necessary for
the proper maintenance and operation of said system, subject to the approval of
the Committee on Water. In emergency cases, he or she may order such supplies,
materials, or implements as may be necessary for the proper operation of the
system;
   (B)   Control and supervise the employees of the Water Department, see that
they faithfully perform the duties assigned to them, and report to the Board of
Trustees any dereliction of duty on the part of such employees;
   (C)   Superintend the making of connections with the water system;
   (D)   Prevent injury to the water system and waste of water, institute legal
proceedings for the punishment of those violating the provisions of this code,
and enforce all rules prescribed for the operation and regulation of the Water
Department;
   (E)   Read water meters;
   (F)   Make all repairs occasioned by leaks or breaks in the mains of the
system, and shut off water from all premises on which leaks are permitted to go
unrepaired; and
   (G)   Examine and approve all bills and accounts against the village arising
out of the operation of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 38.1.4)
RATES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 CONTRACT FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Customer accepts service. The rates, rules, and regulations contained
in this chapter shall constitute and be considered part of the contract with
every person, company, or corporation who is supplied with water services from
the water system and every person, company, or corporation hereinafter called a
“customer” who accepts and uses village water services shall be held to have
consented to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The Department will endeavor, at
all times, to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, but in
case the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular or defective or
fail from causes beyond its control or through ordinary negligence of
employees, servants, or agents, the Department shall not be liable therefor.
   (C)   Using services without paying. Any person using utility services from
the village without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking
the seal of any meter or appurtenances or bypass the meter shall, upon
conviction, be fined a sum as is provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   Destroying property. A person found guilty of defacing, tampering,
injuring, or destroying or in any manner limiting the use or availability of
any meter or any property of the utilities, or erecting signs on the property
of the utilities without permission shall, upon conviction of such act, be
fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (E)   Service obtained by fraud. All contracts for utility services shall be
made in the name of the head of the household, firm, or corporation using the
established spelling of that person’s or firm’s name. Attempts to obtain
service by the use of other names, different spellings, or by substituting
other persons or firms will be considered a subterfuge and service will be
denied. If service has been discontinued because of non-payment of bills or any
unpaid obligation, and service again has been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation, or fraud, that service will be promptly disconnected and the
whole or such part of the advanced payment as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation shall be retained by the village and credited to the
appropriate account.
   (F)   Full payment required. Statements for utility services in the village
shall be combined into a single statement, rendered every month, showing the
amount charged for utility services. Such statements so rendered shall not be
payable in part, and no payment other than that of the entire bill shall be
accepted.
   (G)   Request to discontinue service. Water shall have been deemed to have
been supplied to any property connected to the waterworks system during a
month, unless the water user notifies the Village Clerk prior to the first day
of the month in which water is to be discontinued.
   (H)   Billing; utility shut-off; hearing.
      (1)   All bills for utility services shall be due and payable upon
presentation. If a bill is not paid by the seventeenth day of the month or
within 17 days of the date the bill is presented, whichever is later, a penalty
equal to 10% of the amount due on said bill shall be added thereto. This
penalty shall be in addition to the charge heretofor established for the
utility services.
      (2)   If a utility bill is not paid within 17 days following billing,
then the village shall notify the customer of such failure to pay by first-
class mail. The notice to the consumer shall state:
         (a)   Name and address of the consumer and the amount of his or her
bill;
         (b)   The date, time, and location of the hearing to be held;
         (c)   That the consumer has a right to be heard and to present
evidence in his or her behalf;
         (d)   That if the consumer fails to appear at the hearing, the
consumer’s utility service shall be terminated without further proceedings.
      (3)   The time, date, and location of the hearing shall be determined by
the Mayor, the Village Clerk, or the designee of the Mayor. The Mayor, Village
Clerk, or designee shall preside over the hearing. The Mayor, Village Clerk, or
designee of the Mayor shall make a final determination as to the rights of the
consumer and the village based on the information received at the hearing.
      (4)   The consumer shall be notified within two working days of the
decision rendered by the hearing officer. If the service is to be discontinued,
a date and time will be set out in the notice to terminate the service or
services of the consumer. Notice of the hearing officer’s decision shall be
made by first-class mail. The owner of the property shall be notified of the
delinquency also.
      (5)   If the hearing officer decides in favor of the village, the village
shall have the right to discontinue the consumer’s services. Should the
consumer fail to appear at the hearing or should the notice be returned non-
accepted, then the village shall also have the right to terminate the
consumer’s utility services without further proceedings.
      (6)   Once utility services have been disconnected, the same shall not be
again connected or used until all delinquent accounts and bills of service are
paid in full, including a fee of $25 for each connection of such utility
services, plus expenses incurred in the reconnecting of the utility services.
   (I)   Lien notice.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for utility services remained unpaid for 90 days
after it has been rendered, the Clerk shall file with the County Recorder of
Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the municipality claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
for utility services served subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      (2)   If the consumer is not the owner of the premises and the Clerk has
notice of this, then notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his
or her address is known to the Clerk whenever such bill remains unpaid for a
period of 90 days after it has been rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid utility bills as mentioned herein.
   (J)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid utility charges shall be sold
for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to
pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in the name of the
village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill for utility services has
remained unpaid 90 days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 38.2.1)
§ 50.16 CONSUMER LISTS.
   (A)   It is hereby made the Village Clerk’s duty to prepare or cause to be
prepared a complete and accurate list of all premises and properties receiving
utility services, showing the name and address of the occupant, and the owner
of the same.
   (B)   The list shall be kept up-to-date, and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises. It shall be presented at the regular monthly meeting.
(Prior Code, § 38.2.2)
§ 50.17 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land, or premises receiving utility
services; the occupant of such premises; and the user of the services shall be
jointly and severally liable for the payment of the services to such lot,
parcel of land, or premises and all services are rendered to the premises by
the village only on the condition that such owner, occupant, and user shall be
jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
(Prior Code, § 38.2.3)
§ 50.18 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   (A)   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or from any
cause, fails to properly register the water passing through the same, the
consumer shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding time of the
previous year.
   (B)   If no record of the previous year exists, then it shall be the duty of
the Superintendent to estimate the amount of service consumed during the time
the meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall be charged with such
estimated amount.
(Prior Code, § 38.2.4)
§ 50.19 UTILITY DEPOSITS – RENTORS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   When any application is made for utility services in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, all applicants of rented or leased
property for which the service is requested shall deposit with the application
the following amounts:
         Residential – inside city limits: $40
      (2)   Where the amount of the deposit provided in division (A)(1) above
is not sufficient to adequately protect the Water Department, a greater amount
than stated above may be required, based on the consumer’s estimated bill for a
customary billing period.
   (B)   Security for payment - no interest. The deposits made under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be held by the village as security for the
payment of water services used by the applicant upon the premises to which his
or her application pertains, and may be so applied when any default is made in
the payment in the water bill in accordance with this chapter. The depositor
shall earn no interest.
(Prior Code, § 38.2.5)
UTILITY EXTENSIONS
§ 50.30 APPLICATION.
   Any person within the service areas of the utility systems and desiring the
extension of the mains to the premises shall make application therefor to the
Water Department, and, in making the application, shall present a plat showing
the area to be served by the main extension.
(Prior Code, § 38.6.1)
§ 50.31 PLAT OF PROPOSED EXTENSION.
   The plat shall be submitted by the Village Clerk to the Engineer and the
Mayor of the Village Board for determination of the size and lengths of the
utilities installations, location of fire hydrants, water service valves, and
other appurtenances to be installed based upon the following provisions.
   (A)   Mains shall be sized so that fire protection service may be rendered
to all lots or premises to be served by the main and any possible extension
thereof.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be so located that no premises will be more than
600 feet from a fire hydrant.
   (C)   In determining the length of pipe lines to be installed to serve a
main extension, the main shall be extended to fully cover the front of the
property, and, if the last lot to be served is a corner lot or a lot
immediately adjacent to a corner lot, the terminal point of the extension made
hereunder shall be located so that the main laid hereunder ties with the
existing main located in the intersecting street; and further provided that if
there is no main located on the intersecting street, or no intersecting street,
the terminal point of the extension made hereunder shall be located at the
nearest street line of the intersecting street, or extend to the furthest end
of the development.
   (D)   The village may require the proposed main to be connected to its
distribution system at a point which, in its judgment, is necessary to
adequately furnish water to premises to be served and nothing herein shall
require the village to allow connection to the closest point of existing
service, if such service is inadequate for the extension proposed. Main trunk
lines may be installed by the village at no cost to the developer; however,
lots or properties fronting directly thereon which may be served by a service
connection to the main will be charged the average amount per connection as
found in subdivisions currently being constructed.
   (E)   The village reserves the right to further extend its water mains from
and beyond the terminus of each water main extension made under this chapter.
The applicant or the applicant’s agent paying for an extension shall not be
entitled to any refund for the attaching of customers to any further extension
or branch mains so involved.
   (F)   Extensions made under this rule shall be and remain the property of
the village.
   (G)   Before the village mains will be laid hereunder in any new
subdivision, it is understood and agreed that the road surface will be brought
to the extended sub-grade and the applicant/developer of such new subdivision
shall furnish the village with a right-of-way agreement in suitable form,
unless the streets of the new subdivision have been dedicated to public use.
   (H)   (1)   When a pipeline is to be installed in a paved or unpaved street,
a service line of three-fourths inch Type “K” Copper is to be provided to the
center line of each lot for a one-family dwelling. The service line is to
terminate at a point three feet to five feet inside the property line in a
meter box.
      (2)   When a business or an apartment house is to be served, contact the
Utilities Department to obtain the proper size for the service.
(Prior Code, § 38.6.2)
§ 50.32 ENGINEER TO PREPARE PLANS.
   (A)   After approval of design, plans and specifications shall be prepared
in accordance with the foregoing and with specifications for utility main
extensions from time to time adopted by the Village Board.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall be prepared by the Village Engineer
or a Civil Engineer acceptable to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 38.6.3)
§ 50.33 SEALED BIDS – LARGER PIPE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sealed bids shall be received by the Village Board after advertisement
not less than ten days prior to the date of receiving of the bids and after
receipt thereof, the applicant shall deposit with the Village Clerk the entire
cost, based upon the lowest responsible bid; the cost to include the entire
cost of the proposed extension, including pipes, valves, fittings, fire
hydrants, all other material, and all costs of engineering and inspection.
   (B)   Except that if the village should require the installation of a size
of pipe larger than is found by the village engineering standard to be
necessary for the subdivision, then the deposit shall be based upon the cost of
installing the size determined to be necessary for the subdivision with the
village standing the additional cost for a larger line.
(Prior Code, § 38.6.4)
§ 50.34 CONTRACT.
   Upon a deposit of the moneys by the applicant as hereinbefore required, a
contract shall be entered into between the applicant and the village, as
follows.
 
UTILITY EXTENSION CONTRACT
AGREEMENT made and entered into this                             day of                             , by and
between the Utility System of the Village of Kansas, Illinois hereinafter called the Utility Department and
_____________________, hereinafter called the Depositor.
   FIRST:   That the Utility Department contracts and agrees to have installed by contract in accordance
with its rules, utility mains as shown on the plat thereof, and the specifications are attached hereto and
made a part hereof.
   SECOND:   Bids having been taken and the lowest responsible bid having been in the amount of $
___________, the Depositor agrees to deposit and does deposit herewith the cost thereof.
            (A) The lowest responsible bid:     __________________
            (B) Engineering and Inspection charge:    __________________
            (C) Total:     __________________
   THIRD:      Final costs to be adjusted up or down according to completed job cost.
   FOURTH:   The ownership of the utility mains laid herein shall be at all times in the Utility Department,
its successors and assigns.
   FIFTH:      This Agreement shall be valid and binding on the Utility Department only when signed by the
President and Village Clerk of the Village of Kansas.
   SIXTH:      This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors or
assigns of the respective parties.
EXECUTED in duplicate by the parties hereto on the date first above written.
                                       UTILITY DEPARTMENT
ATTEST:                        VILLAGE OF KANSAS
_______________________________      By _______________________________
Village Clerk                           President
_______________________________                _______________________________
Witness                                     Depositor
                                                      
Witness
 
(Prior Code, § 38.6.5)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Application for taps and service connections to waterworks system
   
51.02   All service to be by meter
   
51.03   Inspection
   
51.04   Meter damage
   
51.05   Resale
   
51.06   Cross connections
   
51.07   Dangerous usage
   
51.08   Electric ground wires
   
51.09   Shortage and purity of supply
   
51.10   Lawn watering
   
51.11   Non-compliance with rules
   
51.12   Fire hydrants
   
51.13   Rules to become part of contract
   
51.14   No free service
Water Rates
   
51.25   Building unit defined
   
51.26   Charge for discontinuing service
   
51.27   Cost of tap and water service connections
   
51.28   Water rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the waterworks
system of the village shall file a written application at the Village Hall,
signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is
desired, or by the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall
be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the cost
of such service connection. In the event the application is made by an agent
for the owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written
authority of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.1)
§ 51.02 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial, or industrial use,
shall be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the
same accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing and so as
to be free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set
in a suitable meter box approved by the Water Committee of the village. Water
will not be turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed
and all other requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner
have been fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.2)
§ 51.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access to premises. The village shall have access to all portions of
the premises of the consumer, at any reasonable time, for inspection of the use
of water, and the consumer’s pipes, fixtures, plumbing, and any other
apparatus, in any manner connected to the water system of the village. The
village shall have the right and option to demand change or stopping of use or
to require any repair, change, removal, or improvement of any pipe, fixture,
plumbing, or other apparatus that would, in any manner, affect the water supply
or system of the village or the supply of fixtures of other consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections, and appurtenances on private property connected with the
waterworks system of the village shall be open to the inspection by the proper
officers and employees of the village, at all reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.3)
§ 51.04 METER DAMAGE.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus, or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the village
for the actual cost of the removal, repairing, and replacing of the damaged
meter and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to
cover such period as it appears that the meter was out of order for such
damage.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.4)
§ 51.05 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the village supply to any premises other than that for which application
has been made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.5)
§ 51.06 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   No consumer shall connect, in any manner, any water pump or other apparatus
taking water from any other water supply source, or any foreign liquid or
material, to any main or pipe supplying water by the village, even though such
connection may be protected by check valves or closed gate valves, because of
the danger of polluted water or liquids being forced back into the mains and
pipes of the village. Any consumer having or making any such cross connection
shall immediately remove the same upon demand and pay the village all costs
incurred because of the same. The existence of any cross connection, closed or
open, shall be deemed sufficient to hold the consumer solely responsible and
liable for any and all expenses, claims, or suits for damages, either direct or
resultant, or could have in any possible manner have been caused by such cross
connection.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The village shall have the right to refuse water service or to discontinue
water service without notice, at any time, to any consumer if the village finds
any apparatus or appliance, the operation of which will be detrimental to the
water system of the village, or to any or all of its consumers. Standpipes,
hydrants, gate valves, and any other apparatus that cause water hammer or any
danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing shall be immediately
repaired or removed upon notice from the village or, at its option, the village
may immediately discontinue the service without notice and without any
liability for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.7)
§ 51.08 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire to any
plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water service
pipe, water meter, or water main belonging to the village. The village will
hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable for any damage to the
property or injury to the employees of the village caused by such ground wire.
All owners and consumers shall remove any existing ground wires immediately
upon written notice from the village. If not so disconnected after five days’
written notice, the village, through its officials, may enter the property and
remove such ground wires and the consumer shall pay all costs.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The village shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer, or public body for any claim or damage, either
direct or resultant, because of any shortage of water supply; any shut off of
water supply for any reason; any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s
or village’s mains, pipes, and fixtures; any pollution or impurity in water
supply; or any fire or water damage.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.9)
§ 51.10 LAWN WATERING.
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hoses for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees,
public exigencies require it.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.10)
§ 51.11 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   If any consumer fails to comply fully with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the village shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the
consumer does not remedy same, as the rules provide, and within a reasonable
time, the village shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in cases
of non-payment, emergency, necessity, or as otherwise provided, the village
will not discontinue service for violation of any rules until five days after
notice has been given and violation has not been remedied.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.11)
§ 51.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants shall be owned, maintained, and used only by the village.
Use of water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon
permission by the village after approved application to the village.
   (B)   The village shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside the
village limits, or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom, or any
damages, either direct or resultant, because of the condition, pressure, or
amount of water available from any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants outside of any village limits owned by the
village will be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but the
village will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their
condition, use, or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only for the
purpose of extinguishing fire, except when the village may issue a special
permit for their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for the
hydrants and the use of water from them.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water plant and the consumption of water shall be adopted and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the village, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.13)
§ 51.14 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished to any person or corporation, public or
private, and all rates and charges shall be non-discriminatory; provided that
the Mayor and Village Board reserve the right to impose special rates and
charges in cases where particular circumstances render the regular rates
inadequate or unjust.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.14)
WATER RATES
§ 51.25 BUILDING UNIT DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual customer and
such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one minimum
water account, according to the number of families or individual residents
residing therein.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.17)
§ 51.26 CHARGE FOR DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   If water is temporarily shut off at the request of the user, a charge of $5
shall be made for such service.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.18)
§ 51.27 COST OF TAP AND WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The village will furnish all materials necessary to construct a three-
fourths inch tap-in connection for the water main to the applicant’s property
line. For all regular three-fourths inch taps and service connections, the
applicant shall pay $150 tap-in fee plus the cost of all labor and materials.
   (B)   All tap-ins for three-fourths inch service connections outside the
corporate limits shall be $150 plus the cost of all labor and materials.
   (C)   All water tap and service connections made to the mains of the
waterworks system of the village shall conform to the regulations of this code
and of the state’s Plumbing Code. All connections and installations shall be
made by a licensed plumber.
(Prior Code, § 38.3.19)
§ 51.28 WATER RATES.
   The following rates for the use and service supplied by the waterworks
system shall be based upon the amount of water consumed per month as follows:
 
Water Service                                   Inside Village
First 4,000 gallons per 1,000 gallons per month $5.50
Minimum of                                      $11
Over 40,000 gallons per 1,000 gallons per month $6
 
(#W-2-84; 04-04-84) (Prior Code, § 38.3.20)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Signs and signals
   
70.05   Unauthorized signs
   
70.06   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.07   Advertising signs
   
70.08   Animals or bicycles
   
70.09   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   The state’s Vehicle Code, Ill. Rev. Stat., Chapter 95-1/2, § 1, entitled,
“Title and Definitions”, as passed, approved, and amended by the State General
Assembly, is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-1)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, special police, auxiliary police, and
marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a
police officer. Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any
person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command of any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 70.04 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, except on
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the state’s “Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways”.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any street an
unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector, or device which purports
to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
nor shall any person place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any street
any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic
or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal,
and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising. No tree, bush, or foliage of any kind shall be so placed,
maintained, allowed to remain, or be displayed upon either public or private
property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement
of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic-control device, sign, or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move, or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the village any sign,
signal, marking, or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by
the Village Board or State Department of Public Works and Buildings, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or
highway any flashing or rotating beacon of light.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle, upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-7)
§ 70.09 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department which shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps
on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use any
siren upon a bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector or conforming to specifications
prescribed by the state on each pedal, visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle of the bicycle provided. The
requirements of this division (E) may be met by reflective materials, which
shall be at least three-sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each tire or
rim to indicate, as clearly as possible, the continuous circular shape and size
of the tires or rims or such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of
the same color on both the front and rear tire or rim. Such reflectors shall
conform to specifications prescribed by the state.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
70.09 shall be fined a minimum of $25 and a sum not to exceed $500 for any one
offense.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-8)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Stop and Through Streets
   
71.01   Through streets
   
71.02   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.03   Stop streets
   
71.04   Yield rights-of-way streets
   
71.05   Posting signs
Driving Rules
   
71.20   State vehicle code; rules of the road adopted
   
71.21   Careless driving
   
71.22   Drag racing unlawful
   
71.23   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
   
71.24   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
71.25   Special speed limitations on elevated structures
   
71.26   General speed restrictions
   
71.27   Special speed limit while passing schools
   
71.28   Failure to reduce speed
   
71.29   Traffic lane usage
   
71.30   Duty to report accident
STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
§ 71.01 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by ordinance as
“through streets” are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys, by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so designated.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance at one or more
entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 YIELD RIGHTS-OF-WAY STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to such
sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
none, then at the point nearest the side of the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop, and yield
right-of-way streets; all one-way streets and alleys; and all stop
intersections.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-5)
DRIVING RULES
§ 71.20 STATE VEHICLE CODE; RULES OF THE ROAD ADOPTED.
   The state’s Vehicle Code, Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 95-1/2, § 11, entitled “Rules
of the Road,” as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly,
is hereby adopted by the village and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village, except for the
following changes, deletions, and omissions:
   (A)   Omissions. Omit §§ 11-202; 11-204; 11-207; 11-208; 11-208.1; 11-208.2;
11-209; 11-209.1; 11-211; 11-302; 11-303; 11-310(f); 11-313; 11-401 to and
including 11-416; 11-500(I); 11-501(c); 11-501.1, the last paragraph beginning
with “notwithstanding” and ending with “appropriate”; 11-502, the last sentence
beginning with “a” and ending with “offense”; 11-503; 11-504, first paragraph
beginning with “any” and ending with “amended”; 11-602; 11-603; 11-604; 11-606
(b); 11-608; and 11-1422.
   (B)   Changes and additions.
      (1)   Change § 11-904 to read: “Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by this
code”.
      (2)   Change § 11-1204(a) to read: “Preferential right-of-way at an
intersection may be indicated by stop signs or yield sings as authorized by
this code”.
      (3)   Change § 11-1416(a) to read: “Any person who shall willfully and
unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other person in
lawfully driving and traveling upon or along any highway within this state or
who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a violation of this code”.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-1)
§ 71.21 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the village in a careless
manner so as to interfere with the safe or lawful operation of any other
vehicle or so as to interfere with or to injure, damage, or endanger persons or
property engaged in the lawful use of the street.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.22 DRAG RACING UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall be a participant in drag racing as defined in § 11-504 of
the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.23 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a police officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails to or refuses to obey such
direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or her lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer is guilty of a violation of
this chapter. The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice,
siren, or red or blue light; provided the officer giving such signal shall be
in police uniform and, if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked
showing it to be an official police vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.24 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Department of Local Authorities, with reference to traffic-control
signals, signs, or markers owned by the Department of Local Authorities, are
authorized to indicate the ownership of such signs, signals, or markers on the
back of such devices in letters not less than three-eighths inch or more than
three-fourths inch in height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other
permanent means and, except for employees of the Department of Local
Authorities, police officers, contractors, and their employees engaged in
highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by the Department
of Local Authorities, it is a violation of this subchapter for any person to
possess such sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2)
§ 71.25 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS ON ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated structure
constituting part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure when such
structure is sign-posted. Upon the trial of any person charged with the
violation of this section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by
the village and the existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.26 GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   The speed limits on various streets shall be approved by the Village Board,
but shall not exceed 20 mph in a school zone and not to exceed 30 mph in a
residential street; otherwise, 30 mph on an arterial street, unless otherwise
posted and 15 mph on alleyways.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2)
§ 71.27 SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while
passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or
across which children pass going to and from school during school days when
school children are present. This section shall not be applicable unless
appropriate signs are posted upon streets and maintained by village or state
wherein the school zone is located.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.28 FAILURE TO REDUCE SPEED.
   A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets and alleys of this village at a
speed which is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the street or alley. The fact that the vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver of the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or when special
hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.29 TRAFFIC LANE USAGE.
   Whenever any roadway within the village has been divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as
practicable, entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such
lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with
safety.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2)
§ 71.30 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within the village shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the Police
Department and shall make a report of such action. Failure to report an
accident within the village within 24 hours shall result in arrests of the
persons involved.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-3)
CHAPTER 72: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
Section
   
72.01   State vehicle code; equipment of vehicles adopted
   
72.02   Excessive noise – stopped vehicle
   
72.03   Excessive noise – wheels
   
72.04   Excessive noise – squealing tires
   
72.05   Muffler
   
72.06   Reckless, negligent, or careless driving
   
72.07   Excessive noise while driving
§ 72.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE; EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES ADOPTED.
   The state’s Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-100 et seq., entitled, “Equipment of
Vehicles”, as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly, is
hereby adopted by the village and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the village, except for the following omissions:
the last sentence of §§ 12-205, beginning with “the” and ending with “act”, 12-
605, and 32-605.1.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-1)
§ 72.02 EXCESSIVE NOISE – STOPPED VEHICLE.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped,
unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears of the vehicle in
neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 EXCESSIVE NOISE – WHEELS.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped,
accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral and while so
accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a forward or
reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with the drive
wheels of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 EXCESSIVE NOISE – SQUEALING TIRES.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall accelerate the engine thereof when
shifting the gears of such vehicle in such a manner as to cause the rear wheels
of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT, OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
reckless, negligent, or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE WHILE DRIVING.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating the vehicle, accelerate
the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle causing an unreasonably loud noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts and Utility Terrain Vehicles
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Requirements
   
73.04   Permits
   
73.05   Utility terrain vehicles
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect, maintain, and enhance
health, safety, and general welfare of citizens of the village. It has come to
the attention of the Mayor and Village Board that the use of golf carts on city
streets creates a potential traffic hazard for other vehicular traffic as well
as danger to the occupants of golf carts. After consideration of the volume,
speed, and character of traffic on the village streets, the Village Board has
determined that electric golf carts may safely travel on village streets.
   (B)   Therefore, the intent of this subchapter is to regulate the use of
motorized carts within the corporate limits of the village, as authorized by
625 ILCS 5/11-1428, “Operation of Golf Carts on Streets, Roads, and Highways”.
(Ord. 24-7-14, passed 7-15-2009)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTRY ROADS. Include County Highway which is known as 125E.
   GOLF CART. Shall not be capable of speeds exceeding 20 mph. The definition
of GOLF CART specifically excludes all terrain vehicles (ATVs) or any vehicle
that is not a GOLF CART.
   STATE ROADS. Include Illinois Route 16 and Illinois Route 49.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES (UTV). Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat, and a steering wheel for
steering control.
(P.A. 96-428, § 5) (625 ILCS 5/1-168.8)
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the within the boundaries of the village except for
state and county roads.
(Ord. 24-7-14, passed 7-15-2009; Ord. passed 7-6-2011)
§ 73.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart on the streets of the village
must ensure compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of liability insurance must be with the golf cart at all times;
   (B)   Must display village decal front and rear;
   (C)   Must be inspected by Village Police Chief or designated
representative;
   (D)   Must have a valid driver’s license;
   (E)   Must be equipped with windshield, horn, brakes, turn signals, a
steering wheel apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, an approved slow moving
vehicle emblem on the rear of the golf cart, a headlight that emits white light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a tail lamp that emits a red
light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear, brake lights, and turn
signals. When operated on a roadway, a golf cart shall have its headlight and
tail lamps lighted;
(625 ILCS 5/11-1428)
   (F)   Must obey all traffic laws of state and village;
   (G)   Must be 21 years of age or older;
   (H)   Side street use only;
   (I)   No modification of golf cart suspension;
   (J)   Must not exceed 20 mph;
   (K)   One crossing at Franklin and Jefferson (Route 16), one crossing at
North Street and Front Street (Route 49), and one crossing at Buena Vista and
Front Street (Route 49);
   (L)   May only operate on village streets with the exception of authorized
crossings of state or county roads;
   (M)   Golf carts may only be operated on designated village streets from
sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather nor when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet;
   (N)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of golf cart on a
roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-
502;
   (O)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or in village parks
other than parking areas;
   (P)   Golf carts may not be operated on streets and highways and roads under
the jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation (Illinois Route 16
and Illinois Route 49) or the County Highway Department (County Highway 125E);
and
   (Q)   Golf carts may not be operated on state or county roads except to
cross at designated streets when authorized by the State Department of
Transportation or County Highway Department, as applicable. The village will
ensure that signs are erected to designate authorized crossing points.
(Ord. 24-7-14, passed 7-15-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart without obtaining a
permit from the Village Clerk as provided herein. Permits shall be granted for
a period of one year and may be renewed annually. The cost of a permit is $50.
Insurance coverage is to be verified by the Village Clerk when renewing the
permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, and description of the golf cart;
and
      (4)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The golf cart must be inspected by the Village Chief of Police (or
designee) to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on village streets and
is in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   The handicapped applicant must submit a certificate, signed by a
physician, that the handicapped applicant is able to safely operate a motorized
golf cart on the roadways designated.
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state.
   (D)   The Village Board may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of
this subchapter or if there is evidence that the permitee cannot safely operate
the motorized golf cart on the designated roadways.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of the ordinances shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$20 and not more than $100.
   (F)   Every person operating a golf cart pursuant to permit hereunder on
designated village streets has all the rights and duties applicable to a driver
of any vehicle pursuant to the state highway traffic laws and regulations
except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf
carts.
(Ord. 24-7-14, passed 7-15-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   Utility terrain vehicles shall follow all requirements set forth in this
subchapter and to include: golf carts and utility terrain vehicles are subject
to tow/impound, or both, for owners allowing unlicensed/unauthorized operation
of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2011)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
74.01   Time limit parking
   
74.02   Parking for sale or repair
   
74.03   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
74.04   Load limits
   
74.05   Exceptions
   
74.06   Towing cars away
   
74.07   Parking violations
   
74.08   Prima facie proof
§ 74.01 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; and
         (l)   In any alley that is opened and maintained.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); and
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; and
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 LOAD LIMITS.
   There is hereby established “gross load limits” on certain village streets.
The term GROSS LOAD LIMIT shall mean the total weight of a vehicle and the load
it is carrying. The specified streets and the load limits are hereby listed in
Chapter 75, Schedule I.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-4)
§ 74.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not include a vehicle making actual deliveries to
customers or pickup trucks, trucks operated by the village maintenance, and
repairs on the above described street or the operation of a vehicle owned by
the U.S. government or state while on lawful business of these agencies.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5)
§ 74.06 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car, boat, trailer, or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of fire hydrant, or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
   (B)   Vehicles towed away shall be stored on any village property or in a
public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and
storing such vehicle(s).
(Prior Code, § 24-6-6)
§ 74.07 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking
a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may
be there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for
such illegal parking by paying to the village $25 to $50 depending on fine for
each such offense. Such payment may be made at the Village Hall and a receipt
shall be issued for all money so received and such money shall be promptly
turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the general fund. The members of
the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a
prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at least five days.
   (B)   Provided that this section shall not apply to persons parking a
vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police
Department or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or
housed or so as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this
section apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely
obstruct traffic in any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who
refuses to remove a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-7)
§ 74.08 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that a vehicle, which is illegally parked or operated is registered
in the name of a person, shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-8)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Load limit streets
SCHEDULE I. LOAD LIMIT STREETS.
   (A)   In accordance with §
74.04, the following load limit streets are hereby established:
Street Load Limit
Street             Load Limit
Virginia Avenue    20,000 pounds
North Street       20,000 pounds
Lafayette Street   20,000 pounds
Jefferson Street   20,000 pounds
Washington Street  20,000 pounds
Buena Vista Street 20,000 pounds
Water Street       20,000 pounds
Illinois Street    20,000 pounds
Estella Street     20,000 pounds
Maple Street       20,000 pounds
Lincoln Street     20,000 pounds
Madison Street     20,000 pounds
Franklin Street    20,000 pounds
Catherine Street   20,000 pounds
Center Street      20,000 pounds
East Street        20,000 pounds
 
   (B)   Provided, however, buses may deliver and pick up people, and trucks
may deliver and pick up merchandise and other property at places of business.
In so doing, such bus or truck shall travel the shortest possible distance upon
the village streets; and except that a vehicle, weighing in excess of the
foregoing limitations, may travel upon said streets where such travel is under
the direction of a police officer of the state or of the county or of the
village.
(Prior Code, Sch. I)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   WEEDS
      
94.   GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
      
95.   ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
96.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Nuisances declared
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner or occupant
   
90.05   Unlawful dumping or depositing of materials
   
90.06   Abatement notice and proceeding
   
90.07   Lien
   
90.08   Inspections
   
90.09   Right of entry
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK WASTE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Appliances, including, but not limited to, washer, dryer,
refrigerator, freezer, stove, television, and water heater;
      (2)   Indoor furniture, including, but not limited to, bed springs,
mattresses, carpet, couch, chairs, and cushions; or
      (3)   Other items exposed to the elements not designed for exterior use.
   FRONT YARD. The yard extending across the full width of a lot that lies
adjacent to the public or private street or roads and extends from the front
property line of said lot to the front of the structure on the lot.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   JUNK. Scrap and old iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum,
tin, lead, or other base metals, scraps of woolens, clippings, bagging, rubber
and glass, and empty bottles of different kinds and sizes when the number of
each kind or size is less than one gross, wrecked or dilapidated motor
vehicles, engines, machinery stored or held, and all articles and things
discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article composed of or consisting
of any one or more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any real property or improvements thereon as the case may be.
   PROPERTY. Premises.
   RUBBISH. Combustible or noncombustible waste materials, except garbage, and
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matters, glass, crockery, and dust and other similar materials.
   WEEDS. Includes noxious weeds, such as buckhorn, bull nettle, burdock,
Canadian thistle cockleburr, curled dock, dodders, field bindweed, giant
foxtail, hoary cress, jimson, Johnson grass, leafy spurge, ox-eye daisy,
perennial sow thistle, quack grass, ragweed, Russian knapweed, sweet clover,
wild carrot, wild garlic, and wild mustard.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-1)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to identify and deal with, in a timely
manner, certain public nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-2)
§ 90.03 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any person owning, leasing,
occupying, or having charge or possession of any premises in the village to
maintain such premises in such manner that any one or more of the divisions (A)
through (F) below are found to exist:
   (A)   The keeping, storage, depositing, or accumulation on the premises of
any junk, garbage, or rubbish, including, but not limited to, abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, unlicensed, or inoperative vehicles; automotive parts and
equipment; appliances; furniture; containers; packing materials; scrap metal;
wood; building materials; or debris which is within view of persons on adjacent
property or public right-of-way and which constitutes visual blight or reduces
the aesthetic appearance of the neighborhood or is offensive to the senses or
is detrimental to nearby property or property values; provided, however, that
wood and building materials being used or to be used for a project or
construction or repair or renovation for which a building permit has been
obtained may be stored for such period of time as is necessary expeditiously to
complete the project;
   (B)   The keeping, storage, depositing, or accumulation of dirt, sand,
gravel, concrete, or other similar materials for an unreasonable period, which
constitutes visual blight or reduces the aesthetic appearance of the
neighborhood or is offensive to the senses or is detrimental to nearby property
and property values;
   (C)   The parking of any semi-truck, trailer, or tractor or vehicle on any
public place or right-of- way, on any street, or alley in the village without a
license for that vehicle displayed thereon;
   (D)   Any premises or village right-of-way adjacent to that premises on
which the owner or person having control or the agent of the person having
control permits any grass or weeds over five inches in height or deleterious,
unhealthful growth, or other noxious matter that may be growing, lying, or
located thereon;
   (E)   The keeping, storage, depositing, or accumulation of bulk waste or
junk. The keeping of bulk waste or junk shall not be permitted on open porches,
carports, open garages, pavilions, or similar structures; and
   (F)   Any premises which is not maintained so as not to pose a threat to the
health, safety, or welfare of the public; is littered with animal feces; or
which has improperly maintained trees, shrubs, or vegetation that poses a
threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public or has conditions which
constitute a mosquito harborage.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Every owner of real property within the village is required to
maintain such property in a manner so as not to violate the provisions of the
chapter and such owner remains liable for violations thereof regardless of any
contract or agreement with any third-party regarding property.
   (B)   Every occupant, lessee, or holder of any interest in property other
than that thereof is required to maintain such property in the same manner as
is required by the owner thereof and the duty imposed by this section on the
owner thereof shall in no instance relieve those persons herein referred to
from similar duty.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 UNLAWFUL DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   Bodies of water. It is unlawful to dump or empty garbage, rubbish,
refuse of any kind, or the washings from any tank, truck, car, or building into
any running stream, swamp, or pool or stagnant water within the village limits.
   (B)   Vacant lots. The deposition of any garbage, rubbish, combustible
material, or junk on any vacant lot within the village limits is unlawful. The
dumping or spreading of any garbage, rubbish, combustible material, or junk on
any street, or street right-of-way, parkway, or public-owned property is
strictly forbidden by law.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 ABATEMENT NOTICE AND PROCEEDING.
   The village shall cause the owner who violates §
90.03(A), (B), (E), and (F) to abate such violation on his or her property. If
any owner fails to abate said violation on his or her properties within ten
days of notice by certified mail or personal service, the village may order the
abatement of the violation. The cost thereof shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the violation is located and there shall be a lien against
the real estate upon which the violation is located. In addition to the filing
of a lien upon such real estate, the village shall have authority to collect
the cost by filing a personal collection action against the owner in court.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-7)
§ 90.07 LIEN.
   Charges for the cost incurred by the village for the abatement of a
violation from any property pursuant to this chapter shall be a lien upon the
premises which priority, as provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13, as hereafter
amended. At any time after a bill has been sent to the owner for abatement of
the violation, a lien against the real estate enclosed may be filed with the
Recorder of the Deeds in the manner provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13(1). The
failure of the village to record such lien claimed or to mail notice of the
failure of the owner to receive notice of such lien shall not affect the right
to foreclose on the lien for such charges, as provided in §
90.03(A) and (B). For the purposes of this section, the village shall be deemed
to incur the cost of abatement.
   (A)   If the abatement is done by village personnel, the cost of the
employee(s) who performs the abatement involves a calculation of the number of
hours required to do the abatement by that employee times the hourly wage of
said employee plus the cost of benefits of employment per hour, and the fair
market rental of all pieces of equipment necessary to perform the abatement
plus the cost of disposal of all materials removed.
   (B)   If the abatement is done by private contractor, the amount of said
contractor invoices the village for work plus disposal of materials removed.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-8)
§ 90.08 INSPECTIONS.
   In order to safeguard the safety, health, and welfare of the public, a duly
authorized agent of the village is authorized to access any property at any
reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections and performing duties
under this code.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-9)
§ 90.09 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   If any owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a structure or premises
subject to the provisions of this chapter refuses, impedes, inhibits,
interferes with, restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to any part of
the structure or premises where inspection authorized by this chapter is
sought, the village shall seek, in a court of competent jurisdiction, an order
that such owner, occupant, or other person in charge shall permit an inspection
of his or her premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-10)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Injury to property
   
91.02   Manner of keeping
   
91.03   Dogs and cats in public places
   
91.04   Keeping barking dogs and crying cats
   
91.05   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
91.06   Wild or vicious animals defined
   
91.07   Keeping wild or vicious animals
   
91.08   Animals in village
   
91.09   Keeping of numerous dogs and cats in the village
Dogs
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
91.22   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
91.23   Duration of inoculation
   
91.24   Specifications for tag
   
91.25   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
91.26   Restraint of dogs
   
91.27   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper
   
91.28   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
91.29   Obstructing pound master
   
91.30   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
91.31   Impoundment
   
91.32   Village pound designated
   
91.33   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
91.34   Dangerous dog
Hens
   
91.45   Hens disallowed
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises
and break, bruise, tear up, crush, or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant,
shrub, tree, or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a dog or cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person unless such person has, in his or her immediate
possession, an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an appropriate
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a
person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards, or runs. All pens, yards, or runs or other structures
wherein any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily
cleaned and kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good
repair, and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 DOGS AND CATS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No dog or cat shall be permitted in any cemetery. No dog or cat shall be
allowed in any parks, beaches, or any swimming areas open to the public in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 KEEPING BARKING DOGS AND CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions complaining of vicious or barking dogs or crying cats.
Whenever any person shall complain to the Police Department that a dog which
habitually barks, howls, or yelps or a cat which habitually cries or howls is
being kept by any person in the village, the Police Department shall notify the
owner of said dog or cat that a complaint has been received and that the person
should take whatever steps are necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping, or
crying.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture,
abuse, or cruelly beat, strike, or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission, or
neglect cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury, or death to any animal whether such animal belongs to such person or to
another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the county
animal control facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any animal to
fail, refuse, or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable water,
shade, or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal in
hot, stormy, cold, or inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or upon
any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      (2)   As used in this division (B):
         (a)   SHADE shall mean protection from the direct rays of the sun
during the months of June through September.
         (b)   SHELTER, as it applies to dogs, shall mean a moisture-proof
structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body
heat, made of durable material with a solid floor raised at least two inches
from the ground, and with the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof
material. Such structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, or any other animal or any bird
of prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 91.07 KEEPING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal for display or for exhibition
purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be
construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions, or
circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet unless a permit is granted by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the village. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may
be seized by a police officer or humane officer and, upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of law
enforcement or military agency, nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that such animals are restrained by a cage,
fence, or other adequate means from contact with the general public or with
persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied permission of the
owner or occupant. Any person harboring a vicious animal, heretofore defined in
§
91.06, solely for the protection of the owner’s property shall restrain the
animal with a fence of sufficient height and strength or a cage of sufficient
strength, including bottom and top portions to allow no escape. In the event a
person who harbors a vicious animal, as defined herein, after due warning
allows such animal to escape from the cage or fence does not immediately comply
with said notice from the village or its agents, the Village Police Department
or the County Humane Officer may seize the animal and impound the same in
accordance with the terms and provisions regarding impoundment as provided in
this chapter.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care, and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 ANIMALS IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall keep any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, chickens,
ducks, turkeys, geese, or other livestock with the village.
   (B)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to areas of the village that
are agricultural in nature, nor shall this chapter apply to livestock brought
into the village for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
   (C)   Powers of the Health Commissioner. The Mayor shall have the power to
issue an order prohibiting the keeping of any animal, fowl, or bird which is
deemed to pose a health hazard to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 KEEPING OF NUMEROUS DOGS AND CATS IN THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the
village for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances,
is detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (1)   DOG shall mean any canine, regardless of age or sex.
      (2)   CAT shall mean any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   (B)   Number of dogs and/or cats limited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs and/or three cats within the village with the exception that a
litter of pups or a litter of kittens or a portion of a litter may be kept for
a period of time not exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes, or
boarding.
   (C)   Kennels. Kennels are not permitted within the limits of the village. A
kennel may be granted permission only if the Board so decides and it complies
with all the Department of Agriculture for the state requirements for
professional kennels.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property
of his or her owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of Illinois.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection subcutaneously (shot given under
the skin) or otherwise, as approved by the State Department of Agriculture, of
canine anti-rabies vaccine, approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his or her care or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or
her.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this code if he or
she is controlled by a leash, at “heel” beside a responsible person or obedient
to that person’s commands, within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
streets, or within the property limits of his or her owner or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 91.21 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address, and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   The inoculation of dogs required by §
91.21(A) shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in the state. Upon performing such inoculation, such
veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact
and shall also deliver to the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag
to be attached to the collar or harness of the dog, which tag shall also
certify to the fact of the inoculation against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 91.23 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
91.22 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which the
vaccination was performed of the expiration of such period of time as may be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 91.24 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
91.22 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 91.25 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time, upon request of any member of the Police Department
or village employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his
or her certificate issued under the provisions of §
91.22, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)
§ 91.26 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control, as defined in
§
91.20.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.27 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to take up and
impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any
dog found running at large or unlicensed in the village, contrary to any of the
provisions of this subchapter or other codes of the village.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to be the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.28 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of such dog is disclosed
by any tax or license tag worn by it, or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable attempts to
contact the owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog and
shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9)
§ 91.29 OBSTRUCTING POUND MASTER.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the village for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded or any person who shall resist, hinder, or
molest the pound master or dog catcher or police officer while engaged upon the
duties imposed upon them by this subchapter, or any person who shall break into
the dog pound and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first
paid the fees herein specified, or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall
permit any dog to run at large within the corporate limits of the village, upon
conviction of any part of this subchapter, shall be fined according to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.30 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded, and
kept separated from other dogs for 14 days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose his or
her condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence
of rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner, however, as to
preserve intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately
sent to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case
such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being
taken to preserve the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately
detached and be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of
Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the 14 days, no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this subchapter;
provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall
have previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed by the
pound keeper. After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 91.31 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this subchapter may employ
any method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any dog found
running at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 91.32 VILLAGE POUND DESIGNATED.
   The County Animal Control Center is hereby designated as the Village Pound.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13)
§ 91.33 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub, or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.34 DANGEROUS DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
to run at large with the limits of this village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
HENS
§ 91.45 HENS DISALLOWED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep hens within the village limits and hens
shall be subject to this subchapter, along with the animals listed there.
   (B)   Any person having hens within the village limits that is currently in
compliance herewith, as it exists prior to this 2018 amendment, shall be
allowed to keep the current hens as long as that person stays in compliance
with the hen ordinance as it existed prior to this 2018 amendment. No
additional hens may be added. Upon none of the current hens in existence at the
adoption of this amendment remaining, then compliance with this 2018 amendment
ordinance is required.
   (C)   The presence of hens in violation of this section is declared a
nuisance and is subject to penalties as provided in the village ordinances.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 2-19-2014; Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Regulations
   
92.01   Closing time
   
92.02   Destruction of park property
   
92.03   Littering; water pollution
   
92.04   Fires in parks
   
92.05   Picnics
   
92.06   Erection of structures
   
92.07   Signs
   
92.08   Animals
   
92.09   Motor vehicles
   
92.10   Sales; amusements for gain
   
92.11   Group activities
PARKS AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 CLOSING TIME.
   All public parks within the village shall close at dusk. The only exceptions
will be for organizations’ special events with permission for use by village
authorities.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-1)
§ 92.02 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Within the municipal parks, no person, except park personnel on official
business, shall:
   (A)   Cut, break, injure, destroy, take, or remove any tree, shrub, timber,
plant, or natural object;
   (B)   Kill, cause to be killed, or pursue with intent to kill any bird or
animal, except in areas where the village has authorized hunting; and
   (C)   Willfully mutilate, injure, or destroy any building, bridge, table,
bench, fireplace, guide post, notice, tablet, fence, monument, or other park
property or appurtenances.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 LITTERING; WATER POLLUTION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall deposit any trash within the municipal parks
except in proper receptacles where these are provided.
      (2)   Where receptacles are not provided, all trash shall be carried away
from the parks by the person responsible for its presence, and be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   (B)   No person shall discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain, lake, stream, or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or in any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into
such waters, any substance or thing, liquid, or solid, which will or may result
in the pollution of said waters.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 FIRES IN PARKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall light or use any unenclosed picnic fire within
the municipal parks.
      (2)   Fires may be built only in fireplaces or on grills constructed for
that purpose in designated areas.
   (B)   In camping areas, no person shall leave any camp fire unattended by a
competent person.
   (C)   Every person who has lighted or used any fire in a municipal park
shall extinguish such fire before leaving the park.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 PICNICS.
   (A)   No person shall picnic in the municipal parks, except in areas
designated for that purpose. Park personnel are hereby authorized to regulate
the activities in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion or to secure
the maximum use, comfort, and convenience of all.
   (B)   Visitors shall comply with any directions given to achieve this end.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall build or place any tent, building, booth, stand, or other
structure in or upon any municipal park or other recreational facility unless
he or she has obtained permission to do so from the village.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 SIGNS.
   No person shall place within any municipal park or affix to any object
therein any sign or device designed to advertise any business, profession,
exhibition, event, or thing unless he or she has obtained a permit to do so
from the village.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 ANIMALS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring any dangerous animal into any municipal park;
   (B)   Permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash; also
all waste clean up is the responsibility of the dog owner; and
   (C)   Ride or lead any horse in any municipal park or recreational area
except upon paths or other ways expressly provided and posted for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person, other than municipal personnel on official business, shall drive
or park any motor vehicle, including snowmobiles, ATVs, or other motorized
vehicles in any municipal park except on a roadway or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 SALES; AMUSEMENTS FOR GAIN.
   Within the parks of this municipality, no person shall, without first having
obtained a permit from the village:
   (A)   Sell or offer for sale any goods or services; or
   (B)   Conduct any amusement for gain or for which a charge is made.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 GROUP ACTIVITIES.
   Whenever any group or organization desires to use municipal park facilities
for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties, exhibitions, or
performances, a representative of said group shall first obtain permission for
such activity from the village.
(Prior Code, § 28-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: WEEDS
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Height
   
93.03   Notice
   
93.04   Service of notice
   
93.05   Abatement
   
93.06   Lien
   
93.07   Payment
   
93.08   Foreclosure of lien
   
93.09   Mowing
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Burdock, Ragweed
(giant), Thistle, Ragweed (common), Cocklebur, Jimson, Blue Vervain, Common
Milk Weed, Wild Carrot, Poison Ivy, Wild Mustard, Rough Pigweed, Lambsquarter,
Wild Lettuce, Curled Dock, Smartweeds (all varieties), Poison Hemlock, Wild
Hemp, and Johnson Grass and all other noxious weeds as defined by the statutes
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 93.02 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 NOTICE.
   The Police Department or any other person so designated by the Mayor or
Village Board may issue a written notice for the removal of weeds or grass.
Such weeds or grass shall be cut by the owner or occupant within five days
after such notice has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-3)
§ 93.04 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained,
then the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-4)
§ 93.05 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-5)
§ 93.06 LIEN.
   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the costs and expenses incurred or payable for the service shall
be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof
incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner:
   (A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
   (C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village, and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-6)
§ 93.07 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release filing fees
shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-7)
§ 93.08 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after
lien is in effect for 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-8)
§ 93.09 MOWING.
   All property owners shall be responsible for mowing and maintaining the
village rights-of-way that join their residence or real property owned.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-9)
CHAPTER 94: GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
Section
   
94.01   Accumulation prohibited
   
94.02   Notice to person
   
94.03   Service of notice
   
94.04   Abatement
   
94.05   Lien
   
94.06   Payment
   
94.07   Foreclosure of lien
§ 94.01 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or her
premises or private property. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect
to remove the garbage or debris.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 NOTICE TO PERSON.
   The Mayor, Chief of Police, or the Mayor’s designated representative may
issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris. Such garbage or debris
shall be removed by the owner or occupant within five days after such notice
has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-2)
§ 94.03 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the same to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or her
household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by mailing
such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided that if
the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then
the notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-3)
§ 94.04 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 94.05 LIEN.
   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A bill
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service shall be
presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission
of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expense thereof incurred by the
village shall be recorded in the following manner:
   (A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
   (C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-5)
§ 94.06 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 94.07 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village, after lien is in effect
for 60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two years
after the date of filing notice of lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-7)
CHAPTER 95: ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
Abandoned Vehicles
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Abandonment
   
95.03   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
95.04   Removal of motor vehicle or other vehicles – towing or hauling away
   
95.05   Police responsibilities
   
95.06   Unknown owner
   
95.07   State police information
   
95.08   Notification; new car; mail
   
95.09   Public sale; reclamation
   
95.10   Notification “for sale”
   
95.11   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
95.12   Public sale proceeds
   
95.13   Liability of village
Inoperable Vehicles
   
95.25   Definition
   
95.26   Declaration of nuisance
   
95.27   Notice to owner
   
95.28   Use for storage prohibited
   
95.29   Violation as a nuisance
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair, rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   COMPONENT PART. Any part of a vehicle, other than a tire, having a
manufacturer’s identification number or an identification number issued by the
Secretary of State.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered, discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its character as a substantial property, and
left unattended without justification on the owner’s land contrary to the
public policy expressed in this code.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley, or public way within this municipality.
   REMOVE. To remove, deface, cover, or destroy.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration, except, however, bicycles, snowmobiles, and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 95-1/2, Par. 4-201) (Prior Code, § 24-7-1)
§ 95.02 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Highway. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (B)   Private property. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicles
or any part thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in
view of the general public anywhere in this municipality is unlawful, except on
property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   Owner’s property. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
so abandoned on private property shall be authorized for removal by or upon the
order of the Police Department of the municipality after waiting a period of
two days or more.
(Ill. Rev. Stat, Ch. 95-1/2, Par. 4-201) (Prior Code, § 24-7-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
municipality, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately
notify the Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of
the municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Police Department, or
designated representative, shall authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, and maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is
disposed of as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER VEHICLES – TOWING OR HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a toll highway,
interstate highway, or expressway for two hours or more, its removal by a
towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
   (C)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway other than
a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway outside of an urban district
for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the
Police Department of the municipality.
   (D)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to
the highway by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department of
the municipality.
   (E)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Police Department, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing and storage costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-4)
§ 95.05 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away as
provided herein, the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing by color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade
name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number,
and license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall
also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-5)
§ 95.06 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department authorizing the impoundment will cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the state police to be searched by a directed
communication to the state police for stolen or wanted information of the
vehicle. The information determined from these record searches will be used by
the Police Department in sending notification by certified mail to the owner or
legally entitled person, advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a
disposition to be made, and setting forth public sale information.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-6)
§ 95.07 STATE POLICE INFORMATION.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of this
state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable, the
Police Department shall notify the state police for the purpose of identifying
the vehicle’s owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. The information obtained by the state police will be immediately
forwarded to the Police Department having custody of the vehicle for
notification of owner.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-7)
§ 95.08 NOTIFICATION; NEW CAR; MAIL.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle four years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the Police
Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-8)
§ 95.09 PUBLIC SALE; RECLAMATION.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in §
95.08, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession may reclaim
the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof of ownership, or proof
of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the
owner or other person under this section until all towing and storage charges
have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-9)
§ 95.10 NOTIFICATION “FOR SALE”.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle
of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for
in this subchapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of
in the manner authorized by this subchapter without notice to the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this subchapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership; the contacting of
the registered owner by the U.S. Mail, public service, or in person for a
determination of disposition; and an examination of the state police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the police will authorize the disposal of the
vehicle as junk. An exception to division (A) above is provided for if, in the
opinion of the police officer processing the vehicle, it has a value of $500 or
more and can be restored to safe operating condition. In this event, the agency
may authorize its purchase as salvage and the Secretary of State may issue a
salvage certificate if the vehicle is bonded in the manner as provided for
certificates of title under Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 95-1/2, § 3-100.
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an
antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a person desiring to restore such
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-10)
§ 95.11 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale of
disposal.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-11)
§ 95.12 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Police Department and disposed of as set
forth in this subchapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after
the deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges, shall be deposited in
the Municipal Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-12)
§ 95.13 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this subchapter.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-40-3 and Ch. 95-1/2, § 4-201 et seq., as
amended) (Prior Code, § 24-7-13)
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
§ 95.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which, for a period of at least
seven days or any greater period, fixed by ordinance; the engine, wheels, or
other parts have been removed; or in which the engine, wheels, or other parts
have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated, that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable
of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinance service
or repair operations; nor shall it apply to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use or to any operable historical vehicle over 25
years of age or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-1)
§ 95.26 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property, in
view of the general public are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.27 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Police Department shall notify the owner of the motor vehicle, informing
him or her that he or she shall dispose of any inoperable vehicles under his or
her control. If the owner fails to dispose of said inoperable vehicles, after
seven days from the issuance of the notice, the Police Department may authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of said inoperable vehicle or
parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-3)
§ 95.28 USE FOR STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle or vehicle component, including, but not limited to, semi truck
trailers, truck beds, vans, refrigerated trucks, or any other vehicle part or
component shall be used as storage within the village limits.
(Ord. 003, passed 10-17-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.29 VIOLATION AS A NUISANCE.
   The use of such components or vehicles is in violation of the abandoned
vehicle provisions contained a nuisance, which can be enforced pursuant to
provisions of the code of ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 003, passed 10-17-2007)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Prohibitions
   
96.03   Restrictions on burning of landscape waste
 
   
96.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and crop residues,
but excluding landscape waste.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under § 9(b) of the
Environmental Protection Act of the state.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-1)
§ 96.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall cause or allow open burning of agricultural waste, building
and roofing materials, or garbage, and landscape waste shall not be allowed to
be openly burned except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING OF LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   (A)   Open burning permitted. The open burning of landscape waste shall be
permitted only on the following conditions.
      (1)   Landscape waste shall be burned on the premises on which such waste
is generated.
      (2)   Landscape waste shall be burned only when atmospheric conditions
shall readily dissipate contaminants.
      (3)   Landscape waste may be burned only if such burning does not create
a visibility hazard on roadways, walkways, or railroad tracks.
      (4)   Open burning of landscape waste may only take place during daylight
hours with a person over 18 years of age in attendance during the entire period
of burning.
      (5)   No open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted on village
streets.
      (6)   No open burning may occur during periods of time when determined by
the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief of the Police Department that
atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fire hazardous.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      REFUSE. Any waste material except clean wood.
   (C)   Materials that may not be burned. Unless a specific written approval
has been obtained from the State Environmental Protection Agency, the following
materials may not be burned in an open fire, incinerator, burn barrel, furnace,
stove, or any other indoor and outdoor incineration or heating device:
      (1)   Rubbish or garbage, including, but not limited to, food wastes,
food wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint or painted materials, furniture,
composite shingles, construction or demolition debris, or other household or
business wastes;
      (2)   Green grass, green leaves, or other green vegetation;
      (3)   Waste oil or other oily wastes except used oil burned in a heating
device for energy recovery subject to appropriate State Environmental
Protection Agency restrictions;
      (4)   Asphalt and products containing asphalt;
      (5)   Treated or painted wood, including, but not limited to, plywood,
composite wood products, or other wood products that are painted, varnished, or
treated with preservatives;
      (6)   Any plastic material, including, but not limited to, nylon, PVC,
ABS, polystyrene or methane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films, and
plastic containers; and
      (7)   Rubber including tires and synthetic rubber-like products.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-3)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise,
convicted for violation of any section of §§
96.01 through
96.03 shall be fined a minimum of $25 and a sum not to exceed $500 for any one
offense. Nothing herein shall limit any other right or remedy of the village or
other person in interest, including the right to obtain an injunction of any
violation from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-4)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS PROVISIONS
      
111.   LIQUOR
      
112.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
113.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS PROVISIONS
Section
License Administration and Requirements
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Persons subject to license
   
110.03   Term and form of license
   
110.04   Investigations
   
110.05   Fees
   
110.06   Termination of license
   
110.07   Building and premises
   
110.08   Change of location
   
110.09   Location
Business Nuisances
   
110.20   Generally
   
110.21   Unsafe or unhealthful business
Working Conditions
   
110.35   Health requirements
   
110.36   Sanitation
   
110.37   Heat required
   
110.38   Inspection compliance
   
110.39   Inspections
Suspension; Revocation of License or Permit
   
110.50   Nuisance
   
110.51   Hearing
   
110.52   Revocation
   
110.53   Hearing notice
   
110.54   Counsel
   
110.55   Appeal
   
110.56   License to be posted
   
110.57   Business vehicle sticker
LICENSE ADMINISTRATION AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this chapter
shall be made, in writing, to the Village Clerk in the absence of a provision
to the contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   The time covered; and
      (5)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number of the certificates of
registration required under the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act, Service
Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act, if applicable. Each application shall
contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the municipal officials in the issuing of the license or permit applied for.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 110.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever, in this code or in any municipal ordinance, a license or permit is
required for the maintenance, operation, or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm, or corporation shall be subject to the requirement if, by
himself, herself, or itself or through an agent, employee, or partner, he, she,
or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity, or occupation,
or if he, she, or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or if
he, she, or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity, or occupation in this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 110.03 TERM AND FORM OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted for a longer term than one year, and all
licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on the last day
of April next following their issue. Every license shall be signed by the Mayor
and attested by the Village Clerk under the corporate seal, and no license
shall be valid until signed and countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any
person be deemed to be licensed until the same shall have been issued to him or
her in due form.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 110.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Village Clerk, within 48 hours, shall
refer the application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such
investigation or inspection.
   (B)   The official to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding such permits and licenses as relate to the care and handling of food,
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection of
health. The Mayor shall make or cause to be made any inspections which relate
to the compliance with this chapter and other related regulations. All other
investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of
Police or by some other officer designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Village Clerk
shall forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
Village Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be
specified necessary and appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons thereof.
Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant
that his or her application is disapproved and that no license or permit will
be issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify
the applicant that his or her application is approved and the license or permit
may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 110.05 FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of provisions of the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Village Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate
authorities. When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity
until after the expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall
be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business or activity has been or will be conducted. Except as
otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become part of the
corporate fund. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license
or permit fee, or part thereof by reason of death or departure of the licensee;
nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of the license or
discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed establishment,
business, or activity.
   (B)   Any person applying for an annual license when the remaining period in
the fiscal year is six months or less is required to pay only one-half of the
annual license fee with no discount.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 110.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on the first day of May of each year and shall
terminate on the last day of April of the following year, where no provision to
the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall notify all licensees of this municipality of
the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual),
three weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, however, that a
failure to make such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it
shall not excuse the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a
renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in action based upon operation
without a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 110.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of this municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall
be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of the Zoning Code of this municipality, if any.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 110.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided that ten days notice thereof is given
to the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided,
however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of the municipality
shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 110.09 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in this
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in this municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this code, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced
by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall
be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel, shall be operated
and managed by the same person or owner, and shall be an establishment with the
same classification.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9)
BUSINESS NUISANCES
§ 110.20 GENERALLY.
   No business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall be so conducted
or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no building, vehicle, or
structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof shall be used, kept,
maintained, or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as
to occasion any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21 UNSAFE OR UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this
division (A) shall be a receptacle of not less than 20 gallons, nor more than
32 gallons capacity, or impervious material and sturdy construction with a
tight-fitting cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate
handling.
   (B)   Duty to provide refuse containers. The occupant of every building,
structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation shall provide and maintain, in good condition and repair, a
sufficient number of refuse containers for the temporary storage of all refuse
accumulating between collections. All refuse which is placed for collection
service outside any building or structure must be kept in standard refuse
containers.
   (C)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
   (D)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owing or controlling any
hotel, restaurant, café, or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons or refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10.2)
WORKING CONDITIONS
§ 110.35 HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner, lessee, manager, or superintendent of any store, factory,
workshop, or other place where persons are employed shall cause or permit such
place or any room or part thereof to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty in
respect to light, ventilation, heat, or cleanliness.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.36 SANITATION.
   (A)   All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean condition, free
from effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable, or other nuisance; also, as far
as practicable, such premises shall be free from all gases, vapors, dust, or
other impurities generated by manufacturing processes or otherwise which are
injurious to health.
   (B)   Sufficient washroom facilities for male and female employees shall be
provided and such facilities shall be properly ventilated.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.37 HEAT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the heating
plant, which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop, to maintain a
temperature within such factory or workshop of not less than 62°F, within such
undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions to any factory or workshop where the business conducted therein is
of such a nature that a higher or lower temperature than 62°F is necessary or
expedient for the work or manufacturing process of such business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling the heating
plant, which furnishes heat to any office, store, or other place of employment,
to maintain a temperature therein of not less than 62°F, without such undue
restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions
therein, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from October 1 of each
year to June 1 of the succeeding year, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.38 INSPECTION COMPLIANCE.
   The Chief of Police and the Mayor shall visit or cause to be visited all
places of employment in this municipality as often as they shall deem necessary
to assure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, and to have such
arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the health and safety of the
employees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11.4)
§ 110.39 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of this municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any
officer or employee of this municipality who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of this municipality requesting the same sufficient samples
of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in this
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take adequate sample of said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of this municipality after first having presented
a warrant authorizing such entry.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12)
SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT
§ 110.50 NUISANCE.
   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment, whether or
not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present
danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the Mayor shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a period not to
exceed ten days.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13.1)
§ 110.51 HEARING.
   Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor shall call a
hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license or permit
should be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13.2)
§ 110.52 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses and permits issued under the ordinances of this municipality,
unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing
as provided in §§
110.53 and
110.54 for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit,
or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to this municipality; and
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in §
110.39.
   (B)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable ordinances of this municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13.3)
§ 110.53 HEARING NOTICE.
   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be given
in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the
time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail
(return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his or her last
known address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13.4)
§ 110.54 COUNSEL.
   At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall present the complaint and shall
represent this municipality. The licensee or permittee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13.5)
§ 110.55 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor in regard to the denial of
an application for the business license, as provided in §
110.04, or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit, as
provided in §
110.50 through
110.54, shall have the right to appeal to the municipality. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days after notice of a
denial of an application or a revocation of a license or permit, a written
statement under oath, setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The
municipality shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee
or permittee in the same manner, as provided in §
110.50 through
110.54. The decision of the municipality on such appeal shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 110.56 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in this
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.57 BUSINESS VEHICLE STICKER.
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis in whole or in part for a
license fee, the Village Clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker
for each vehicle covered by the license and such tag or sticker shall be posted
or affixed in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-16)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Liquor unlawful in village
   
111.02   Manufacturing unlawful
   
111.03   Definition
   
111.04   Sale by club or given to public
   
111.05   Medical treatment
   
111.06   Liquor on streets
   
111.07   Transporting in motor vehicles and the like
   
111.08   Liquor in vehicles; minors
   
111.09   Peddling
   
111.10   Unlawful acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 LIQUOR UNLAWFUL IN VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, barter, or exchange any
intoxicating beverage in the village. It shall be unlawful to keep in the
village for the purpose of selling the same or offering the same for sale any
intoxicating beverage.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 MANUFACTURING UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to bottle, manufacture, distill, or prepare for sale,
in any way, any intoxicating beverage within the village.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Any liquid intended for human consumption containing
more than 0.5% by volume of alcohol.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-3)
§ 111.04 SALE BY CLUB OR GIVEN TO PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful to serve or give any intoxicating beverage in any club,
whether or not such beverage is offered, sold, or given to the public or only
to the members of the club.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 MEDICAL TREATMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the sale by
a licensed pharmacist of any intoxicating beverage or the prescription of a
licensed physician for medical treatment.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-5)
§ 111.06 LIQUOR ON STREETS.
   Its shall also be unlawful to consume any alcoholic beverages on any public
park, street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way in the village.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 TRANSPORTING IN MOTOR VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, within the village, transport, carry, possess, or have any
alcoholic liquor in, upon, or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley, or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; MINORS.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of any is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
and/or
   (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-8)
§ 111.09 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the village, to wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public way;
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof; and
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place, including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
Solicitors
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Certificate of registration
   
112.03   Application for certificate of registration
   
112.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
112.05   Policy on soliciting
   
112.06   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.07   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
112.08   Time limit on soliciting
   
112.09   Solicitations on public highway
   
112.10   Fees
Peddlers
   
112.25   License required
   
112.26   Definition
   
112.27   Applications
   
112.28   Investigation of applicants
   
112.29   Hours
   
112.30   Fraud
   
112.31   Photographs
   
112.32   Unwanted peddling
   
112.33   Peddlers as nuisance
   
112.34   Duty of police to abate
   
112.35   Peddlers not a nuisance
   
112.36   Fees
SOLICITORS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character, or description
whatever, for any kind or consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind, or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 112.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting, as defined in §
112.01, from persons within this municipality is hereby required to make
written application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided.
All resident, charitable, non-profit organizations in this municipality which
have been in existence for six months or longer shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of this municipality and filed with such
Chief. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also business address if other than residence
address; also social security number;
      (2)   Address of place or residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status; and, if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of person, firm, or corporation or association
with whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of
such employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for a certificate under this code, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this code ever been revoked?
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this code or the code of any other state municipality regulating
soliciting?
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States?
      (13)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application and the address from
which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
      (14)   Also, such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application. All statements made by the applicant upon
the application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in
consecutive order and filed and every certificate issued, including any renewal
thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued. The Chief of Police shall have three days to review and
process the application.
   (C)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States, within five years of the date
of application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person whose certificate of
registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 112.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this code.
Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the application or the
denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified,
the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this chapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this subchapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person, or by certified
U.S. Mail, addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the
application.
   (C)   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void.
   (D)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 112.05 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of this municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the determination
of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 112.06 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   No person, whether or not that person has a certificate, shall approach any
residents or business where a “No Solicitation” or “No Peddler” or similar sign
or notice is posted.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.06.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as
herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. of any weekday or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General for the state as a charitable organization as provided by “An
Act to Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes,
Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an Appropriation Therefore”,
approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fund raising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act or ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent; and
   (E)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high visibility vest.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 112.10 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate of registration, the applicant
shall pay a fee according to the following schedule:
   (A)   Yearly: $500;
   (B)   Monthly: $200; and
   (C)   Daily: $100.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-5-2) (Prior Code, § 7-2-11) (Ord. passed - -
2018)
PEDDLERS
§ 112.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of hawker or
peddler of any merchandise, article, or thing without having first secured a
license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.26 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLE. The selling, bartering, or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter, or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways, or public places of this municipality or from house to
house, whether at one place thereon or from place to place, from any wagon,
truck, pushcart, or other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but
shall not include the delivery of any item previously ordered, or the sale of
items along delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the
seller to stop and exhibit his or her items. Nor shall PEDDLE be taken to
include the solicitation of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered
at the time the order is taken.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Chief of Police and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home address and the local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application and the address from which such
business was conducted in those municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 112.28 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Upon receipt of each application, the Chief of Police shall investigate the
business and moral character of the applicant. If the facts show the applicant
unfit to receive the license, then it shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 112.29 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this code or not, to engage in peddling, as
herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 4:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.30 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating, or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler in this municipality, or shall barter, sell, or
peddle any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or
her application for a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.31 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of its employees as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application with pictures shall be two by two, showing the head
and shoulders of the applicant or its agents and/or employees in a clear and
distinguishing manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 112.32 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   No person, whether or nor that person has a valid license under these
provisions, shall approach any business or resident where a “No Solicitation”
or “No Peddler” or similar sign or notice posted. Any violation of this section
subjects the person to penalties and, further, to revocation of any license to
operate in the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) (Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 112.33 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments, or offices in the village by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
said private residences, business establishments, or offices for the purpose of
disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and punishable as a violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.34 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of the village is hereby required and directed to
suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
112.33.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 112.35 PEDDLERS NOT A NUISANCE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business, firm, or corporation located
and regularly doing business in the village or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves, and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the village or anyone duly licensed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 112.36 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a license to peddle in the village limits,
the applicant shall pay a fee according to the following schedule:
   (A)   Yearly: $500;
   (B)   Monthly: $200; and
   (C)   Daily: $100.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 113: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Frequency and length
   
113.03   Exceptions
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE OR YARD SALES. Include all sales entitled “garage sale”, “attic
sale”, “rummage sale”, “flea market sale”, “yard sale”, or any similar casual
sale of tangible personal property which is advertised by any means whereby the
public at large is or can be made aware of the sale.
   GOODS. Include any goods, warehouse merchandise, or other property capable
of being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations, and
corporations.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 113.02 FREQUENCY AND LENGTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale in the city
more than five times within a 12-month period, and no garage sale shall be held
for more than three consecutive calendar days. It is specifically prohibited to
sell at a garage sale any items purchased for resale.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials; or
   (C)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named or described in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed five in number.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Franchise granted
   
114.03   Facilities – construction and operation
   
114.04   Construction specifications
   
114.05   Applicable codes
   
114.06   Moving buildings – wires
   
114.07   Liability for damages
   
114.08   Trimming trees
   
114.09   Extent and renewal
   
114.10   Right of grantee; FCC regulations
   
114.11   Indemnification and insurance
   
114.12   Modification of subscriber rates
   
114.13   Default and termination
   
114.14   Equality of services
   
114.15   Office of grantee – complaints
   
114.16   Fee installation
   
114.17   Annual revenues
   
114.18   Authority to construct
   
114.19   Unlawful actions
   
114.20   Maintenance of equipment
   
114.21   Notification of franchise acceptance
   
114.22   Schedule of rates
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to grant to the current local contracted
cable company, hereinafter called the grantee, a franchise to stretch wire and
cable and appurtenant structures over and under the streets and alleys of the
village and to maintain and use the same as a coaxial cable distribution system
for television distribution to subscribers’ residences and to business and
public establishments for 15 years and regulating the rate of such service.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 114.02 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to full consideration and approval of the grantee’s legal
character, financial, technical, and other qualifications, and the adequacy,
feasibility, and extent of its construction arrangements, and as part of a full
public proceeding affording due process, the village, hereinafter called the
grantor, does hereby grant to the local cable provider and to its successors
and assigns, the rights, privilege, and authority and franchise to operate in,
over, upon, and under the streets, alleys, and highways, and to erect other
appurtenances and to maintain and use the same as a coaxial cable system for
distribution of television, radio, and other signals into subscribers’ homes
and to business establishments within and throughout the village.
   (B)   The grantee shall not transfer the franchise to another person without
prior approval from the grantor.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 FACILITIES – CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   All work, excavation, erection of poles and appliances, and laying of
wires and the operation and maintenance of the grantee’s system shall be done
in compliance with the necessary rules, regulations, ordinances, or orders,
which may, during the continuance of this franchise, be adopted from time to
time by the village.
   (B)   The word NECESSARY, as used in division (A), shall mean such rules,
regulations, and ordinances or orders as the Village Board may deem necessary
to protect and safeguard the health, safety, and convenience of the public and
any member of the public residing within the village who might be affected by
any excavation work or installation of the grantee, or maintenance, use, and
operation of its television distributing system.
   (C)   If, at any future time, the Village Board requires the cable under
this franchise be placed underground as part of an underground wiring system,
no cost of removing or moving said cable underground shall be paid by the
village; provided, however, that grantee shall not be required to place any of
its cable underground, except in those areas where both the telephone and
electric power service facilities are required to be underground or may
hereafter be required to place facilities underground; and provided further,
that in new developments, or in those places where a subscriber or property
owner requests that service connections be placed underground, trenching costs
(or a fractional share of joint trench costs based upon relatively required
trench dimensions of joint users) for underground installations may be charged
to and will be borne by the developers, subscribers, or property owners; and
provided further that in underground installations, amplifiers, and subscriber
tap-off devices may nevertheless be placed in appropriate housing on or above
the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All cables, wires, antennas, or other appurtenances shall be
constructed and erected in workpersonlike manner.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the village from
sewering, planking, bridging, grading, altering, or otherwise improving any of
the streets of the village. This chapter shall further not be so construed as
to deprive the village of any rights and privileges which it has now or which
may be conferred upon it to regulate the use and control of streets. The
village shall further have, at all times, the right to make use of the poles of
said grantee for wires, cables, or conductors for any and all village-owned
wire system provided that such use does not conflict with grantee’s prior
occupancy.
   (C)   In the event any of the grantee’s poles, cables, wires, or other
appurtenances interfere with any future use that shall, at its own expense,
promptly relocate such poles, cables, wires, or other appurtenances upon being
notified to do so. Whenever the grantee, its successors, and assigns, shall
disturb any of the streets for the purpose of aforesaid, it or they shall
restore the same to good order and conditions as soon as practicable without
unnecessary delay, and, failing to do so, the grantor shall have the right to
fix a reasonable time limit within which such repairs and restoration of street
shall be completed, and upon failure of such repairs being made by said
grantee, its successors, and assigns, the village shall have the right to make
such repairs and to be reimbursed by the grantee, its successors, and assigns.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 APPLICABLE CODES.
   (A)   All construction hereby authorized shall conform to the requirements
of the National Electrical Code, as developed by the American National
Standards Institute; the state’s Occupational Safety and Health Code; and all
other applicable laws, ordinance rules, and regulations of the village and of
the state, as from time to time amended.
   (B)   The grantee shall, during the continuance of this grant, provide
facilities and service sufficient at least to meet the rules and regulations
and technical standards for the Federal Communications Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 MOVING BUILDINGS – WIRES.
   (A)   Whenever any person has obtained permission of the proper village
officials to use any of the streets of the village for the purpose of moving
any building, the grantee, its successors, and assigns, upon prior notice of at
least two regular business days from such person and his or her paying the
actual costs thereof, shall raise or remove any and all of the wires or cables
which may obstruct the moving of such building so as to allow the unobstructed
passage of the same.
   (B)   Neither the village nor any of its employees shall be held liable for
the consequence of any act done in connection with the moving of the building
or rearrangement of wires or for the cost of rearranging the wires.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   In the event it shall be necessary to cut or remove any of the wires,
cables, or other appurtenances or equipment of the grantee in order to get fire
ladders or other apparatus to a building during a conflagration, the village
shall not be liable for any damage done to such wires, cables, conductors, or
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7)
§ 114.08 TRIMMING TREES.
   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
village streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public places in order to prevent
the branches of such trees from contacting the grantee’s wires, cables, and
equipment, provided that such trimming is done under the supervision and
direction of the village and at the expense of the grantee.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-8)
§ 114.09 EXTENT AND RENEWAL.
   This shall be based on a separate written contract between the village and
the cable provider or successor and assigns.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-9)
§ 114.10 RIGHT OF GRANTEE; FCC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The rights and privileges herein granted shall not be deemed exclusive
and the right is hereby reserved to the village to grant any other persons,
companies, corporations, or associations similar rights.
   (B)   This franchise is governed by and subject to all applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission. Any modifications of the
provisions of 47 C.F.R. § 76.31 of the rules and regulations of the Federal
Communication Commission governing franchise standards shall be incorporated
into this code by the village and grantee within one year of the adoption of
the modifications or at the time of the next franchise renewal, whichever
occurs first. It shall be the obligation of the grantee, upon notification of
any change in this rule, to notify the village of these changes.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-10)
§ 114.11 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Grantee shall indemnify and save the village free and harmless from
any and all liability, loss, cost, damage, or expense from accident or damage,
either to itself or to persons or property of others, which may occur by reason
of the exercise of the rights and privileges herein granted; and shall, for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section and prior to commencing
construction of any kind, have in full force and effect, and file evidence
thereof with the Mayor, a good and sufficient policy (or policies) covering
bodily injury with the limits of $300,000 personal injury for each person;
$1,000,000 personal injury for each accident and property damage with limits of
$50,000 for each accident and $100,000 aggregate, with said policy (or
policies) to be executed by an insurance company (or companies) authorized and
qualified to do business in the state and conditioned to indemnify and save
harmless the village from and against any and all claims, actions, suits,
liability, loss, cost, or be suffered by the village or by anyone by reason of
the erection, construction, relocation, replacing, readjustment, repair,
maintenance, or operation of the coaxial cable and appurtenances thereto, or by
reason of anything that has been done by the grantee thereunder which may, in
any way, cause liability by reason thereof.
   (B)   The grantee shall pay, and, by its acceptance of this franchise,
specifically agrees that it will pay, all expenses incurred by the grantor in
defending itself with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in division
(A) above. These expenses shall include all out-of-pocket expenses, such as
attorney’s fees, and shall also include the reasonable value of any services
rendered by the grantor’s attorney, or his or her assistants, or of any
employees of the grantor.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-11) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 MODIFICATION OF SUBSCRIBER RATES.
   The village declines to exercise its option to set or approve subscriber
rates. The company may modify its subscriber rates without seeking or obtaining
prior approval by the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-12)
§ 114.13 DEFAULT AND TERMINATION.
   The grantee shall, at all times, fully and faithfully perform all the terms,
provisions, and conditions of this franchise and grant and furnish service,
meeting at least the minimum requirements and technical standards of the
Federal Communication Commission, and maintain its property in good order and
repair throughout the entire term of the grant, and upon default by the grantee
hereunder of any of the provisions of this franchise or upon the failure of the
grantee to comply with any of the rules, regulations, or orders of the grantor
and the continuance of such default or failure for a period of 30 days after
written notice setting forth in detail the exact nature of such default or
failure, such notice to be sent to the corporate headquarters of the grantee,
the village may, by resolution and for good cause shown and such default not
corrected, terminate this grant of franchise hereunder and in case of said
forfeiture, the grantee shall have 120 days to remove all of its wires, cables,
or other appurtenances from the streets and alleys and any not so removed
within said time shall become the property of the grantor.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-13) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 EQUALITY OF SERVICES.
   The grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service facilities, rules,
regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant any preference or
advantage, provided that nothing in this franchise shall be deemed to prohibit
the establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate schedules
to which any customer coming within such classification would be entitled.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-14) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 OFFICE OF GRANTEE – COMPLAINTS.
   The grantee shall maintain a business office with a toll-free telephone
listing, so located that maintenance service shall be promptly available to
subscribers upon request. Notice of the procedures adopted by the grantee and
the village for the investigation and resolution of all complaints regarding
grantee’s TV cable operations shall be given to each subscriber at the time of
initial subscription to the cable system. Any person having a complaint to
regarding the grantee’s operations may direct such complaint to the grantee.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-15)
§ 114.16 FEE INSTALLATION.
   The grantee shall provide one free installation, connection, and service
therefor to each public school and municipal building located within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-16)
§ 114.17 ANNUAL REVENUES.
   The company shall pay to the village to defray the village’s cost of
administrating this franchise a percentage of its annual gross subscriber
revenues taken in and received by it from the delivery of television signals
within the village. (This percentage shall be stated in the contract for
franchise between the grantee and the grantor.) For the purpose of this
franchise, gross subscriber revenues shall be limited to that revenue the
licensee receives as a result of providing its customers with regular
subscriber services, and shall not include revenues derived from preprogram or
per-channel charges, leased channel revenue, advertising revenues, or any other
income derived from the system. The franchise fee set forth herein shall be due
and payable in cash in full within 60 days following the close of each fiscal
year of the company.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-17)
§ 114.18 AUTHORITY TO CONSTRUCT.
   The grantee, subject to the provisions herein, is authorized to construct
and operate the cable television system in any and all areas of the village,
and it shall, upon request, extend its facilities to any and all such areas;
provided, however, if, in the opinion of the grantee, such an extension is
economically impracticable, the grantee may seek financial assistance from the
developer, contractor, subscriber, or property owner requesting service before
it is required to enter into any new construction. Once construction has begun,
however, erection of new facilities shall be completed without unreasonable
delay. Disputes, if any, concerning the meaning of “economically
impracticable”, as used herein, shall be subject to review by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-18)
§ 114.19 UNLAWFUL ACTIONS.
   Upon enactment of this code, either of the following actions by any person,
corporation, or unincorporated association shall be unlawful and subject to
criminal penalty as described in §
114.99:
   (A)   The unauthorized connection, whether physically, electronically,
acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a licensed CATV
system with the village for the purpose of taking or receiving television or
radio signals, or for the purpose of enabling other to receive such signals,
pictures, programs, or sounds; and
   (B)   The willful tampering with, removal of, or injury to any cables,
wires, or equipment used for distribution of television or radio signals,
pictures, programs, or sound without the consent of the system owner.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-19) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   The grantee, upon the retirement of its operating equipment, shall install
and maintain equipment equal to or approximating the capability of then current
CATV technology to the extent that this is practicable and economically
feasible.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-20) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 NOTIFICATION OF FRANCHISE ACCEPTANCE.
   The grantee shall signify its acceptance of this franchise by filing written
notification thereof with the Village Clerk within 30 days from final passage
of this code by the Village Board and approval by the Mayor. The franchise
shall become effective on the date such acceptance is received by the Village
Clerk (adopted originally in 1985).
(Prior Code, § 10-1-22)
§ 114.22 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   With the ever changing rate environment, the grantee shall provide all
subscribers with rate change notices and new subscribers with a rate schedule.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-23)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violators of the provisions of §
114.19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each and every day or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this section is
committed, continued, or permitted shall be deemed a separate offense and, upon
conviction of any such violation, such violator shall be punishable by a fine
and/or imprisonment. Any equipment or structure erected or maintained and any
work commenced or continued in violation of this code shall be and is hereby
declared unlawful and a public nuisance, and the Village Attorney, on direction
of the Village Board, shall institute necessary legal proceedings for the
abatement, removal, or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law and
shall take such other steps as may be necessary to accomplish these ends.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-19)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
135.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
136.   LITTERING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Meaning of words and phrases
   
130.02   Criminal Code adopted
   
130.03   False pretenses
   
130.04   Aid to an offense
§ 130.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases of 720 ILCS 5/2-1, as
approved, adopted, and amended, are hereby adopted by the village, as fully as
if set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-1)
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq., as passed, approved, and
amended by the State General Assembly, is hereby adopted by the village, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the
village; provided, however, the penalties as provided by §
10.99 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares,
or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter public places and call for
refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse to pay for same, or
depart without paying for or satisfying the person from whom he or she received
the food, goods, wares, and/or merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise, or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or, in any manner, encourage the commission of such
offense hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Offenses
   
131.01   Aggravated battery on a police officer
   
131.02   Impersonation of officer
   
131.03   Aid in escape
   
131.04   Escapes
   
131.05   Discarded refrigerators
Offenses Involving Weapons
   
131.20   Concealed weapons
   
131.21   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
Offenses Involving Fireworks and Explosives
   
131.35   Storage of explosives
   
131.36   Fireworks regulations
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 131.01 AGGRAVATED BATTERY ON A POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall, by violent, tumultuous, or obstreperous conduct or
carriage, disturb any police officer in the discharge of his or her duties nor
shall any person assault, strike, or fight with any police officer in or upon
any house or premises in the village owned or possessed by him or her or under
his or her management and control.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village or shall, without being duly authorized by the village,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of the
village officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist, or otherwise interfere with any
village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office, or attempt
to prevent any such officer from arresting any person, either by force or by
giving notice to such person, or attempt to rescue from such officer any person
in his or her custody, or impersonate any of the members of the police force of
this village, or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person,
wear the uniform of or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the
Police Department, or use any of the signs, signals, or devices adopted and
used by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or shall abet or
encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or
other person legally having him or her in charge, or shall molest or interfere
with any officer or other person so legally having him or her in charge, or
shall, in any manner, aid, abet, or encourage the rescue or the attempt to
escape from any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to
supply any such person with any weapon or with any implement or means whereby
an escape might be affected, or with any intoxicating liquors, drugs, or other
article(s) without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building, or other structure, or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling, or other structure under his, her,
or its control in a place accessible to children, or other container which has
an air-tight door or lid, snap-lock, or other locking device which may not be
released from the inside without first removing the door or lid, snap-lock, or
other device from the ice box, refrigerator, or container.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING WEAPONS
§ 131.20 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
    No person shall, within the village, carry or wear under their clothes, or
concealed about their person, any dangerous or deadly weapon, other than as
permitted by the Illinois Firearm Concealed Carry Act (430 ILCS 66/1, et seq.).
Local, state and federal law enforcement personnel are exempt from this section
while performing their duties.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-17) (Ord. passed 11-18-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.21 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow, or air gun
within village limits or so that the bullet, arrow, missile, or projectile
therefrom enters the village limits without written permission from the Mayor,
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her personal
property.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 131.35 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite, and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess, or store at or in any place within the village any nitroglycerine,
dynamite, or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess, or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the village in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.36 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Defined. The term FIREWORKS shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibit
nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration, or detonation and shall include
blank cartridges and toy cannons in which explosives are used; the type of
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same; firecrackers,
torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, sparklers, bombs, or other fireworks of
like construction; and any tablets or other devices containing any explosive
substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual effects;
provided, however, that the term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy
canes, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains
or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that
the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion,
and the toy pistol, paper or plastic caps which contain less than 0.25 grains
of explosive mixture, excluding recoverage model rockets sold for the express
use of modelers and/or exhibitions of rocketry, the sale and use of which shall
be permitted at all times.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation to offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks within the village
limits.
   (C)   Permits. The Village Board may authorize the Village Clerk to grant
permits for the supervised public display of fireworks. No permit granted
hereunder shall be transferable. Permits may be granted hereunder to any group
of three or more adult individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be
required for supervised public displays by state or county fair associations.
   (D)   Applications. Application for permits shall be made, in writing, at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display and action shall be taken
on such application at the next regular meeting of the Village Board.
   (E)   Display. Every such display shall be handled by a competent individual
designated by the Police Chief and shall be of such character and so located,
discharged, or fired as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person
or persons.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
132.02   Admission fees, fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
132.03   Renting premises for unlawful purposes
   
132.04   Posting bills
   
132.05   Blocking streets and sidewalks
   
132.06   Destruction of public property
   
132.07   Petty theft
   
132.08   Criminal damage to property
   
132.09   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment
   
132.10   Injury to utility wires and poles
   
132.11   Molesting of street signs prohibited
Trespass
   
132.25   Trespasses prohibited
   
132.26   Specifically enumerated trespasses - suppression
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any barbed wire or
other such sharp pointed fence below eight feet in height and no electrically
charged fence shall be erected or maintained, except in an agricultural or
conservation zone district.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 ADMISSION FEES, FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter without payment of
the proper admission fee any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 RENTING PREMISES FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, use, or allow to be used, any
building or property owned by him or her, for any purpose whereby riotous or
disorderly persons are gathered.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print, or nail
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind on any
curbstone, flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door, or gate
without the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door, or gate;
provided, however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper
village and county officials of election signs, polling place signs, and other
signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except
they may not be attached to a tree.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 BLOCKING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
    No person shall engage in any activity or store or park any equipment,
property or vehicle on any street or sidewalk so as to impede any pedestrian or
vehicular traffic on said sidewalk or street.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-19) (Ord. passed 11-18-2022) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.06 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the village shall deface, destroy, or in any way injure any
public property or any other apparatus of the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 PETTY THEFT.
   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under $300
and he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains, by deception, control over property of the owner;
   (C)   Obtains, by threat, control over property of the owner;
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or
her to believe that the property was stolen, and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in such a manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; and
      (3)   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use of benefit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 16-1) (Prior Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this code:
   (A)   Knowingly damages any property of another without his or her consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire of explosive, damages property of
another;
   (C)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land of building.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 21-1) (Prior Code, § 27-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.09 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private firefighting equipment or any apparatus appertaining to
such equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper
authorization.
(Ill. Rev. Stat, Ch. 38, § 21-1) (Prior Code, § 27-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.10 INJURY TO UTILITY WIRES AND POLES.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously, or negligently break,
deface, injure, or destroy any telegraph pole, post, or wire, or any electric
light post, pole, or electric conductor, wire, or lamp or any other thing
connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas main,
pipe, or hydrant or lamp or lamp post, or anything belonging to or connected
therewith or with any of them.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.11 MOLESTING OF STREET SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage, or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRESPASS
§ 132.25 TRESPASSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.26 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES - SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
132.25 hereof, any of the following acts by any person, firm, or corporation
shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of
the provisions of §
132.25, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time or, from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this subchapter;
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises, or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to leave any such vehicle,
aircraft, or watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having
such right.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Obscenity
   
133.02   Harmful material
   
133.03   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors
   
133.04   Cannabis and paraphernalia
§ 133.01 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with the
knowledge of the nature of content thereof or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature of content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance, or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents and obscene
exhibition of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. A thing is obscene if, considered as a whole, its
predominant appeal is to prurient interest; that is, shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex, or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters. A
thing is obscene even though the obscenity is latent, as in the case of
undeveloped photographs.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence. Obscenity shall be judged with reference
to ordinary adults, except that it shall be judged with reference to children
or other specially susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of
the material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed
for or directed to such an audience. In any prosecution for an offense under
this section, evidence shall be admissible to show:
      (1)   The character of the audience for which the material was designed
or to which it was directed;
      (2)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people;
      (3)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits of
the material, or the absence thereof;
      (4)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
      (5)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material; and
      (6)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement, or
possession of a mold, engraved plat, or other embodiment of obscenity,
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more
than three copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an
intent to disseminate.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-1)
§ 133.02 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a child, that is, a person under 18 years of age, or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly distributes
to or sends or causes to be sent to or exhibits to or offers to distribute or
exhibit any harmful material to a child is guilty of a violation of this code.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Material is harmful if, to the average person applying contemporary
standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to prurient interest;
that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion, which goes
substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters and is material, the redeeming social importance
of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      (2)   MATERIAL, as used in this chapter, means any writing, picture,
record, or other representation or embodiment.
      (3)   DISTRIBUTE means to transfer possession of whether with or without
consideration.
      (4)   KNOWINGLY, as used in this section, means having knowledge of the
contents of the subject matter or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the contents thereof.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence. The predominant appeal to prurient
interest of the material shall be judged with reference to average children of
the same general age of the child to whom such material was offered,
distributed, sent, or exhibited, unless it appears from the nature of the
matter or the circumstances of its dissemination, distribution, or exhibition
that it is designed for especially susceptible groups, in which case, the
predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to its
intended or probable recipient group. In prosecutions under this section where
circumstances of production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution,
or publicity indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake
of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature
of the material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social
importance of the material is, in fact, substantially less than its prurient
appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided such
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government, or any state, county, or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
armed forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material, as defined in
this section, culminates in the sale or distribution of such harmful material
to a child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of
the child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents as where the order
or request for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, or
similar means of communications and delivery of such harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, or similar means of transport, it shall be a
defense in any prosecution for a violation of this section that the
advertisement contained the following statement or a statement substantially
similar thereto, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that
he or she was not under the age of 18 years and that the purchaser falsely
stated that he or she was not under the age of 18 years.
      (5)   Notice: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to
purchase the matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who
falsely states that he or she is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of
obtaining the material advertised herein is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Child falsifying age. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely
states, either orally or in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of age and identity
which is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 TIE-IN SALES OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO DISTRIBUTORS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation, or any agent, officer, or employee thereof
engaged in the business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals, comic
books, or other publications to retail dealers who shall refuse to furnish to
any retail dealer such quantity of books, magazines, periodicals, comic books,
or other publications as such retail dealer normally sells because the retail
dealer refuses to sell or offer for sale any books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books, or other publications which are obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy,
or indecent is guilty of an offense. Each publication sold or delivered in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-8-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 CANNABIS AND PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a
different meaning.
      CANNABIS. The meaning ascribed to it in § of the Illinois Cannabis
Control Act, as that definition is set forth from time to time and is
incorporated herein (720 ILCS 550/3(a)).
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in § 10 of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, which are intended to be
used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act,
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the Methamphetamine Control and
Community Protection Act or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. It includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
         (d)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
         (e)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil or a synthetic
drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where applicable, the following
items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs; and
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (f)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of this act.
   (B)   Possession of cannabis. It shall be a violation of this section for
any person to knowingly possess cannabis in the amount up to 100 grams.
   (C)   Possession of drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to knowingly
possess an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance in the
human body, or in preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Items marked for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling or other use of cannabis as an incident to lawful research, teaching
or chemical analysis and not for sale or personal use; or
         (b)   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with, the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting or inhaling of tobacco or other lawful substance. Items
exempt include, but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies,
tobacco pipes and cigarette rolling papers.
      (3)   Items described in division (C)(2)(a) above, which are marketed for
decorative purposes, where such items have been rendered completely inoperable
or incapable of being used as an item of drug paraphernalia.   
   (D)   Seizure and forfeiture. All items of drug paraphernalia shall be
seized and forfeited as contraband of the county.
(Ord. passed - -2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
General Offenses
   
134.01   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
134.02   Unlawful assembly
   
134.03   Disorderly conduct
   
134.04   Conduct in public places
   
134.05   Begging
   
134.06   Throwing rocks and the like
Offenses Against Health, Safety, and Decency
   
134.20   Disorderly conduct; elements of the offense
   
134.21   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
134.22   Refusing to aid an officer
   
134.23   Assembling at public places and businesses
   
134.24   Trapping animals
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 134.01 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God, or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior or by any disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Whenever 12 or more persons, any of them armed with clubs or dangerous
weapons, or 30 or more persons, armed or unarmed, are unlawfully, riotously, or
tumultuously assembled in the village, it shall be the duty of each of the
village police officers to go among the persons so assembled, or as near them
as safety will permit, and, in the name of the state, command them immediately
to disperse; and if they do not obey, every person refusing to disperse shall
be deemed guilty of unlawful assembly.
   (B)   When persons so unlawfully assembled neglect or refuse on command to
disperse, it shall be the duty of the police to forthwith suppress such
assembly and disperse the person composing it in such manner as may be most
expedient.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall disturb the good order of society, or the peace of any
private family, or of any congregation within the village by any noise or
amusement, or by vulgar or profane language, or by any disorderly or immoral
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the village without having
obtained permission in writing from the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.06 THROWING ROCKS AND THE LIKE.
   No person in the village shall throw or cast any stone or any other missile
upon or at any building, tree, or other public or private property, or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley, or public place.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH, SAFETY, AND DECENCY
§ 134.20 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits, in any manner, to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village, or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits, in any manner, to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such a place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such a place;
   (E)   Transmits, in any manner, to any peace officer, public officer, or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.21 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance of one known to
the person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his or her
official capacity commits an offense.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 31-1) (Prior Code, § 27-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.22 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails reasonably, upon command, to aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 38, § 31-8) (Prior Code, § 27-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.23 ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Drive-in business. A drive-in business within the meaning of this code
shall be deemed to be any business where meals, sandwiches, cold drinks,
beverages, ice cream, food, drink, or consumer services are served directly to
or are permitted to be consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles, motorcycles,
or other vehicles parked on the premises.
   (B)   Declared public places. For the purpose of preserving public peace,
health, and safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in business,
together with means of ingress or egress, are hereby declared to be a public
place.
      (1)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the
motor of any motor vehicle; needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop any
motor vehicle; blow any horn of any motor vehicle; or cause to be made any loud
or unseemly noise, nuisance, or disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of
the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed.
      (2)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter:
         (a)   Entering the premises of any drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking such vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving such vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent
of the owner or operator of such business, in which event, such motor vehicle
shall be subject to a parking citation of may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
         (b)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using said
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street, or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on said
premises;
         (c)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business,
other than in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
         (d)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in
business, in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or use abusive
language under circumstances reasonably calculated to provoke a breach of the
peace.
   (C)   Posting sign. It shall be the responsibility of the business operator
to post on the premises in a conspicuous location one or more signs bearing the
following legend in letters at least two inches of more in height and readable:
“crsining in or congregating and loitering outside a motor vehicle is unlawful.
No unoccupied vehicles may be left on the premises without the consent of the
owner”.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.24 TRAPPING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to trap game or fur-bearing animals in the
village, except for the animal control officer in the case of health and safety
of our citizens.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
General Offenses
   
135.01   Curfew
   
135.02   Halloween
   
135.03   Cigarettes or tobacco; sale to minors
Parental Responsibility Regulations
   
135.15   Definitions
   
135.16   Parents and guardians responsible for acts
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 135.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Established. It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of
age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or
highway at the following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent,
legal guardian, or other responsible companion at least 18 years of age;
approved by a parent or legal guardian; or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of this state authorize a person less than 17 years
of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day; and
      (2)   Between 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents and guardians. It shall be unlawful for a
parent, legal guardian, or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or
her custody or control to violate division (A) above.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 23, § 2371 and Ch. 24, § 11-1-5) (Prior Code, § 27-2-26)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 HALLOWEEN.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in the Halloween practice,
commonly called “trick or treat”, by calling at the homes or dwelling places
within the village, either masked or unmasked, except upon the designated day
established by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.03 CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO; SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, buy for, or furnish any cigar
or cigarette or tobacco in any of its forms to any minor under 18 years of age
unless upon the written order of the parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REGULATIONS
§ 135.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the village, whether such property
is owned by the state, county, or governmental body or owned by any private
person, firm, partnership, or association;
      (2)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly, by means of fire or
explosive device, damaging, debasing, or destroying any property of another
person;
      (3)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly starting a fire
on land of another person without his or her consent;
      (4)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly depositing on
the land or in the building of another person, without his or her consent, any
stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the
use and occupancy by another of the land or building; or
      (5)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly, and without authority,
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft or any part thereof, of another person without
his or her consent.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A foster parent, a person appointed guardian of a person or
given custody of a minor by a circuit court of this state, but does not include
a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor, or appointed
guardian, or given custody of a minor under the state’s Juvenile Court Act.
   MINOR. A person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18 years of
age.
   PARENT. The lawful father and mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption.
   PROPERTY. Any real estate, including improvements thereon, and tangible
personal property.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-1)
§ 135.16 PARENTS AND GUARDIANS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and said
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described in this title with
the knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this
subchapter, upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B),
and (C) below.
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law, or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property, or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance,
law, or statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a
person or property;
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the
village, following said adjudication or non-judicial sanctions; and
   (C)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set forth
in division (B) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of
any ordinance, law, or statute as described in division (A) above, or shall
have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency resulting
from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law, or statute as
described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-2)
CHAPTER 136: LITTERING
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Littering prohibited
   
136.03   Prevention of scattering
   
136.04   Receptacles - upsetting or tampering
   
136.05   Sidewalks and alleys free from litter
   
136.06   Owner to maintain private premises
   
136.07   Littering from vehicles
   
136.08   Littering from aircraft
   
136.09   Litter in parks
   
136.10   Handbills
   
136.11   Posting notices prohibited
   
136.12   Construction sites
   
136.13   Loading and unloading docks
   
136.14   Parking lots
   
136.15   Clearing of litter from open private property by village
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include
helicopters and lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container of water-tight construction with
a tight-fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within. Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size of sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by the U.S. Mail service, including, but not
limited to, those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety, and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping, and transporting goods, wares,
commodities, and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river, or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building, or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional, or religious purposes,
together with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps,
vestibule, mailbox, and other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses, or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-1)
§ 136.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the village, except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.03 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.04 RECEPTACLES - UPSETTING OR TAMPERING.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.05 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying, or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.06 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.07 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village, unless such vehicle is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents, or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises; nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.08 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop, or deposit any litter with
the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.09 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the village, except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.10 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place, provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any
handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises, provided,
however, that in case of private premises which are not posted against the
receiving of handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by
anyone upon such premises not to do so, may securely place any such handbill in
such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements
upon any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (C)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only of
newspapers or political literature, except that newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent them from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private
premises.
   (D)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of a vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (E)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.11 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or required by law. No person, except the owner or tenant,
shall post any such notice on private property without the permission of the
owner or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.12 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction processes upon any public place or private
premises shall be removed by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.13 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating, or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented form being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.14 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include, but
not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots,
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide,
in an easily accessible location, a minimum of one refuse container for every
50 parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.15 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY VILLAGE.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected shall
be in accordance with the state statutes. The Superintendent of Utilities and
the Mayor shall be responsible for the implementation of this enforcement
program.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-15)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   CEMETERIES
      
153.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
154.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
155.   EXCAVATIONS
      
156.   STORM SEWERS AND CULVERTS
      
157.   DRIVEWAYS
CHAPTER 150: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Definition
   
150.02   Nuisance declared
   
150.03   Maintenance unlawful
   
150.04   Abatement
   
150.05   Unknown owners
   
150.06   Alternate action
   
150.07   Lien
   
150.08   Payment
   
150.09   Foreclosure of lien
   
150.10   Enforcement and injunction
Buildings as Nuisances
   
150.25   Condition
   
150.26   Time limit
   
150.27   Unsafe conditions
   
150.28   Manner of correcting defects
   
150.29   Notification of owner
   
150.30   Declared nuisance
   
150.31   Lien
   
150.32   Payment
   
150.33   Foreclosure of lien
   
150.34   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of the neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any
part of such structure; and/or
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 150.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Any such dangerous building in the village is hereby considered to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 150.03 MAINTENANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor, or his or her designated representative of the
village, shall find that any building or structure in the village is a
dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement to this effect
with the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice
to be served upon the owner thereof, if any, by registered mail or by personal
service.
   (B)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition and that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that
the condition must be remedied at once. Such notice may be in the following
form:
 
TO:                            ; (Owner/Occupant of the premises) or the premises known as and described
as                                              . You are hereby notified that                             (building) on the
premises above described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after inspection by ____________________.
The cause for this decision is                           . (insert facts of dangerous condition). You must remedy this
condition or demolish the building immediately or the Village will proceed to do so.
 
   (C)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith within
15 days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by personal
service or by registered mail, the village may proceed to remedy the condition
or demolish the dangerous building.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 150.05 UNKNOWN OWNERS.
   If the owner(s) of the premises concerned is unknown, or if his or her
address is unknown, service of any notice provided for in this subchapter may
be made by posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing a copy
thereof one time in a newspaper within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4)
§ 150.06 ALTERNATE ACTION.
   (A)   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this
subchapter, the Fire Chief, if any, or other municipal official whose duty it
is to investigate fires, may make the investigation authorized by the statute
found in the Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 127-1/2, Par. 9 to 14.
   (B)   If such officer shall find that any building or structure is so
occupied or situated as to endanger persons or property or, by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of repair, or for any other cause, is especially liable
to fire or is liable to cause injury by collapsing or otherwise, he or she
shall order the dangerous condition removed or remedied, and shall so notify
the owner or occupant of the premises.
   (C)   Service of such notice may be in person or by registered mail, and any
person so notified may appeal from the decision of such officer in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.5)
§ 150.07 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for the abatement of the nuisance shall be a lien upon the
premises. A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner.
   (B)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the village shall
be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service;
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed with 60 days after the cost and expense is incurred;
and
      (4)   The cost and expense of the attorney’s services.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.6)
§ 150.08 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the costs and expenses after
notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of
record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.7)
§ 150.09 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after the lien is in
effect for 60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two
years after the date of filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.8)
§ 150.10 ENFORCEMENT AND INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, as passed, approved, and amended by the State
General Assembly, entitled “Unsafe Buildings”, shall prevail in the enforcement
of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Village Board may proceed under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-
2, which authorizes an injunction to require compliance with building, fire,
health, and safety standards.
(Prior Code, § 6.1.9)
BUILDINGS AS NUISANCES
§ 150.25 CONDITION.
   The Village Engineer, the Fire Chief, or the Code Enforcement Officer shall
report to the Mayor and Village Board that the building at _______ in the
village is in a dangerous condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 150.26 TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of such building shall repair or alter it so as to make it safe
within 30 days from the time notice is served upon him or her in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.27 UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   The building shall be deemed unsafe because of, but not limited to, the
following.
   (A)   The main supporting beams are not properly secured at outer walls.
   (B)   Outer walls from foundation to the first floor line are unsafe.
   (C)   Floor joists are undersized and are toe-nailed to beams.
   (D)   Sub-flooring on first and second floors is of inferior and decayed
lumber.
   (E)   Sheathing of outer walls is of inferior and decayed lumber.
   (F)   Walls are bulging outward at first floor line.
   (G)   Rear stairway to first floor and second floor is unsafe.
   (H)   Front porch is unsafe.
   (I)   Wood construction is in contact with chimney.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 150.28 MANNER OF CORRECTING DEFECTS.
   The owner shall correct these defects by the following:
   (A)   Main supporting beams to be supported properly at the outer walls;
   (B)   Outer walls from the foundation to the first floor line to be
constructed so as to carry first and second floor outer walls safely;
   (C)   Joists on first and second floors to be of a size able to carry a live
load of 40 pounds per square foot of floor surface;
   (D)   Joists to rest on beams or bearing partitions and lapped and spiked
together and to be properly bridged;
   (E)   Sub-flooring to be replaced with sound lumber;
   (F)   Sheathing of outer walls and front porch to be replaced with sound
lumber;
   (G)   The walls of the building that bulge outward from the main structure
are to be replaced and made plumb and so constructed that it will not be
possible for them to pull away from the main structure;
   (H)   Front porch and stairs to be replaced with sound lumber;
   (I)   Rear stairway to first and second floors to be replaced with sound
lumber;
   (J)   All wood framing adjacent to chimney to be so constructed as to leave
a two-inch clearance space between said framing and chimney;
   (K)   Basement ceiling, the first floor ceiling, stairway enclosing walls,
and walls of hallways shall be plastered on metal lath; and
   (L)   Walls in basement from ceiling to foundation to be plastered on metal
lath or properly firestopped. All work done in the construction of this
building to be done in compliance with the County Zoning Code and all other
codes applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.29 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   The Village Board, or its designated representative, shall serve or cause to
be served upon the owner of the building a copy of this chapter, certified to
by the Village Clerk, by personal service or by posting a copy thereof upon the
premises and mailing another copy to the last known address for mailing of
owner, and shall report to the Mayor when such notice has been served.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 150.30 DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The building described in §
150.25 is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (See Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-
31-1.)
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 150.31 LIEN.
   Charges for the abatement of said nuisance shall be a lien upon the
premises. A bill representing the costs and expenses incurred or payable for
the service shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30
days of submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expenses
thereof incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner:
   (A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service;
   (C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred; and
   (D)   The cost and expense of the attorney’s services.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 150.32 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the costs and expenses after
notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed or
recorded in the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8)
§ 150.33 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after the lien is in
effect for 60 days. A suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two
years after the date of filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-9)
§ 150.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-31, as passed, approved, and amended by
the State General Assembly, entitled “Unsafe Buildings”, shall prevail in the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-10)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   State requirements adopted by reference
   
151.003   State Department of Public Health Regulations
   
151.004   Campers and trailer coaches prohibited
Immobilized Mobile Homes
   
151.015   Immobilized mobile homes
   
151.016   Permit
   
151.017   Lot size and distance
   
151.018   Dependent mobile homes
   
151.019   Concrete pads
   
151.020   Off-street parking
Mobile Home Parks Administration
   
151.035   Compliance with statutes; applicability of subchapter
   
151.036   Planning
   
151.037   Local government requirements
   
151.038   Permits
   
151.039   Inspection of mobile home park
   
151.040   Violation proceedings
   
151.041   Fees
Mobile Home Park Design and Construction Requirements
   
151.055   Plan document
   
151.056   Application
   
151.057   Location
   
151.058   Roadways and parking
Mobile Home Park Generally
   
151.070   Lot size
   
151.071   Miscellaneous restrictions
   
151.072   License fee
   
151.073   Application for building and mobile home occupancy permit
   
151.074   Certificate of occupancy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath, in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   CAMPER. A mobile living unit designed to be mounted upon and conveyed by a
vehicle or towed by a vehicle.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   Any structure resting on a permanent foundation with wheels,
tongue, and hitch permanently removed. The Village Board establishes the
following criteria to complete the immobilization of a mobile home.
         (a)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line
so as to attach and become part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete,
mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line shall satisfy the requirement for a permanent foundation.
         (b)   As an alternative to division (1)(a) above, piers may be used,
extending into the ground below the frost line, and sufficient in number to
properly support the mobile home.
         (c)   To complete the immobilization, wheels, tongue, and hitch must
be permanently removed. Axles may be removed.
      (2)   The structure is five years of age or newer.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village, allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed as
to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frame, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons,
provided that any such structure resting on a permanent foundation with wheels,
tongue, and hitch permanently removed shall not be construed as a MOBILE HOME,
but shall be an immobilized mobile home. A MOBILE HOME should not be confused
with a camping trailer or recreational vehicle.
      (2)   The structure is five years of age or newer.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT.
      (1)   A mobile home or travel-trailer which does not have a flush toilet
or a bathtub or shower.
      (2)   The structure is five years of age or newer.
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE.
      (1)   Consists of two mobile units joined at the side into a single home,
but kept on their separate chassis for repeated transportation to a site.
      (2)   The structure is five years of age or newer.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT.
      (1)   A mobile home with self-contained toilet and bath or shower
facilities.
      (2)   The structure is five years of age or newer.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME MODULE.
      (1)   A factory-fabricated building unit transported to a building site,
mounted on a permanent foundation supporting the outside perimeter walls, and
is designed for residential use.
      (2)   The structure is five years of age or newer.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land under unified ownership and/or control on
which two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle,
or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile
home park, including courts, developments, and communities.
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale, and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A permit certificate issued by the village, permitting the
construction, alteration, or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home
park under the provisions.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state, or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the village for an indefinite period of time.
   SPACE shall be synonymous with MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the village for a temporary period of time with an expectation
of resumption.
   TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle used or maintained for use as a conveyance upon
highways or city streets so designed and so constructed as to permit occupancy
hereof as a temporary sleeping place for one or more persons having no other
foundation than wheels or jacks.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-1) (Ord. passed 7-1-1998; Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 151.002 STATE REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Mobile Home Park Act and the Mobile Home Tiedown Act of the Ill.
Rev. Stat., Ch. 111-1/2, as passed, approved, and amended by the State General
Assembly, are hereby adopted by the village.
   (B)   The applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and
immobilized mobile homes shall be controlling within the corporate limits of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-2)
§ 151.003 STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   The “Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks”, as approved by the State
Department of Public Health, is hereby adopted by the village. The applicable
provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile homes shall
be controlling within the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-3)
§ 151.004 CAMPERS AND TRAILER COACHES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No camper or trailer coach located within the village limits shall be
occupied by any person as a residence or used for sleeping arrangements. Any
such violation will result in penalty being imposed pursuant to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any camper or trailer coach being used
as a residence on January 1, 2015, and continually since that date.
   (C)   In the event a visitor to a residence in Kansas is using a trailer
coach, also known as a recreational vehicle, they may apply for a permit from
the Kansas Police Department to allow said trailer coach to be occupied as a
residence during the visit. The initial permit shall be for a period no longer
than 30 days. This permit can be extended no more than two times per residence
during a calendar year.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES
§ 151.015 IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES.
   All immobilized mobile homes located in the village shall be classed as real
estate; therefore, it is mandatory for all persons owning, operating, renting,
or leasing an existing mobile home outside a mobile home park to remove or
cause to have removed the wheels or any other transportation device from the
mobile home. The owner or lessor shall permanently fix it to the ground in a
manner that conforms to the definition of an IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME in §
151.001. All existing mobile homes, when replaced, shall comply with the
immbolization provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.016 PERMIT.
   All persons seeking to locate or replace a mobile home or an immobilized
mobile home outside a mobile home park shall obtain a permit from the Village
Board. No utility services shall be connected to the unit until the Village
Board has issued the permit. All units located outside a mobile home park shall
be on a lot owned by the person seeking the permit.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.017 LOT SIZE AND DISTANCE.
   The minimum lot size for the location of a mobile home or an immobilized
mobile home shall be 7,000 square feet. All units shall be at least 15 feet
from any lot line, 25 feet from any building on any adjacent lot, or 25 feet
from any street. Only one unit shall be permitted per platted lot.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.018 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES.
   No dependent mobile home shall be permitted in the village unless located in
a licensed travel-trailer park. At no time shall anyone use a dependent mobile
home as a permanent residence or dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.019 CONCRETE PADS.
   All immobilized mobile homes shall be placed on either a reinforced concrete
pad at least 14 feet wide by 60 feet in length, two reinforced concrete runners
four feet wide and 60 feet in length, or on concrete piers approved by the
Village Board. The concrete pads shall consist of four inches of reinforced
concrete or six inches of concrete. A concrete footing is optional. All piers
and footings for immobilized mobile homes shall comply with the definition of
the same. Expandable units shall be provided with approved piers or their
equivalent at each corner of the units.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.020 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Each owner of an immobilized mobile home shall provide for a dustless, off-
street parking area of 400 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARKS ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.035 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES; APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Every mobile home park hereafter established in the village shall, at
a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   “An Act to Provide For, License, and Regulate Mobile Homes and
Mobile Home Parks”, Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 111-1/2, § 711 et seq.;
      (2)   “Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks”, State Department of
Public Health, Consumer Protection Division, as now or hereafter amended; and
      (3)   This code.
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of division (A) above, the
more stringent requirement shall prevail. Mobile home parks may be allowed by
special-use permit in the village, but are otherwise strictly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.036 PLANNING.
   (A)   Any person seeking to establish, operate, alter, or expand a mobile
home park shall obtain a permit to construct or license to operate a mobile
home park.
   (B)   CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK, as used in this chapter,
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining
common water, sewer, or other utility supply or service, or the collection of
rents, directly or indirectly, from two or more independent mobile homes. (All
plans shall be submitted to the Village Board for approval prior to the
granting of a permit.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.037 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with this code or
other ordinance applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.038 PERMITS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall review each application and plan documents
submitted.
   (B)   When the application and plan documents are found to be in compliance
with the “Rules and Regulations for Mobile Home Parks”, as promulgated by the
State Department of Public Health, the Village Board may issue the proper
permit to construct or alter a mobile home park to the applicant.
   (C)   Permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-4)
§ 151.039 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARK.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile home park or the
proposed alteration of a mobile home park, the applicant shall notify the Mayor
in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be made.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.040 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or
suspension by the Mayor.
   (B)   However, the Mayor shall first serve or cause to be served upon the
licensee a written notice in which shall be specified the way or ways in which
such licensee has failed to comply with the statutes, or any rules or
regulations promulgated by the village pertaining thereto.
   (C)   The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such
nuisance, unsanitary, or objectionable condition specified in such notice
within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
Mayor.
   (D)   If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the
notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Mayor may
revoke or suspend such license.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-6)
§ 151.041 FEES.
   (A)   Each mobile home that is located on a lot in a mobile home park shall
secure an appropriate building permit from the village.
   (B)   All future locations on the same lot shall be exempt from the fee.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARK DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.055 PLAN DOCUMENT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to
operate a mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the Mayor a written
application and plan documents and such plan documents shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the state, with
registration seal affixed.
   (B)   Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the application files
with the village to obtain a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park or
an original license to operate a mobile home park, not previously licensed by
the Department.
   (C)   These plans shall include, but not be limited to, the design and
construction criteria set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.056 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every applicant shall file with the Mayor a written application
and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a mobile home
park.
      (2)   The plan documents shall be prepared by a registered engineer or
architect licensed to practice in the state, with registration seal affixed to
the plan.
   (B)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the engineer
or architect and shall include:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
      (2)   The proposed method of lighting and structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (3)   The plat plans of the mobile home park, building plans, and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities;
      (4)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached; and
      (5)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $50
for a permit to construct or an application fee of $25 for a permit to alter or
increase the size of the park.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.057 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well-drained
and free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment.
      (2)   The mobile home development shall not be located near swamps,
marshes, or other breeding places of insects, rats, and mice.
      (3)   When good, natural drainage is not available, storm drainage shall
be provided and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or surface
watercourse.
   (B)   The Mayor may conduct a side survey to ascertain that the proposed
location complied with the above requirements.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-12)
§ 151.058 ROADWAYS AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with the Subdivision Code.
   (B)   (1)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum road width
of 30 feet for the purpose of this code and shall be considered local streets.
      (2)   If a mobile home park has more than 50 units, then a 32-foot width
may be required by the Village Board.
   (C)   (1)   When sidewalks and walkways are constructed abutting a street in
a mobile home park, there shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot.
      (2)   No portion of a mobile home shall block, in any way, the pedestrian
traffic on the walkways.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARK GENERALLY
§ 151.070 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a mobile home pad shall be 6,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.071 MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home parked in a mobile home park shall be immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one mobile home shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel-trailer shall be permitted in any mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.072 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be $10 and shall be
due and payable on or before May 1 of each year.
   (B)   The funds shall be placed in the general fund and applied to the
administrative cost of the inspections.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-20)
§ 151.073 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING AND MOBILE HOME OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   A copy of the application for building and mobile home occupancy permit
follows:
 
APPLICATION FOR BUILDING AND MOBILE HOME OCCUPANCY PERMIT
Office of the Mayor                                      Application No.                      
Village Hall                                           Date:                                     
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE- OFFICE USE ONLY)
Date:                                                 Perm, Parcel Date:                                           
( ) Permit Issued                     Fee Paid to Village Clerk:
( ) Permit Denied                     $                       Date:                                
( ) Application Appealed
                              If denied, cause of denial:
                                                                                                      
                                                                                                      
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANT: All information required by the application must be completed and submitted herewith. Applicants are encouraged to visit the Village Hall for any assistance needed in completing this form.
1. Name of Owner(s):                                                                                                                                  
   Address:                                                              Phone:                                                                     
2. Applicant’s name:                                                               Phone:                                                           
   Address:                                                                                                                                         
3. Property interest of applicant:                                                                                                                   
                     (Contract purchaser, etc.)
4. Address of proposed construction or mobile home:                                                                                     
5. Legal Description:                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                
(Lot, block, and subdivision: attach metes and bounds description, if necessary.)
Cost of Improvement $                            Square feet of Improvement                                                           
6. Proposed construction (check one or more, as necessary):
( ) New Building       Type:                               Brick/Frame No. Rooms                                               
( ) Alterations or additions to existing buildings (explain):                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                
 
7. Use of existing and proposed structures (if applicable):
 
Existing Use:                                                                                                                                           
 
Proposed Use:                                                                                                                                           
8. Two copies of sketch plat (drawn to approximate scale) shall be attached, showing the following:
   (a) Dimensions and use of all buildings;
   (b) Dimensions of lot;
   (c) Distance of each building from lot lines;
   (d) Distance of principal building from principal buildings on adjacent lot(s);
   (e) Distance between accessory buildings and principal buildings;
   (f) Distance from lot line to center line of abutting street(s);
   (g) Location (with dimensions) of driveways and off-street parking spaces;
   (h) Location of all easements;
   (i) Location of all underground utilities, including septic tanks, tile fields, and wells.
9. Application is hereby made for an Occupancy Permit as required under the Village Code for the erection, moving or alteration and use of buildings and mobile homes. In making this application, the applicant represents all of the above statements and any attached maps and drawings to be a true description of the
proposed new or altered uses and /or buildings. The applicant agrees that the permit applied for, if granted, is issued o the representations made herein and that any permit issued may be revoked without notice on any breach of representation or conditions.
It is understood that any permit issued on this application will not grant right of privilege to erect any structure or to use any premises described for any purpose or in any manner prohibited by the Village Code, or by other ordinances, codes, or regulations of the Village.
                     Applicant:                                                                                     
                     Date:                                                                                            
 
(Prior Code, § 23-3-20)
§ 151.074 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
 
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
The plans and specifications submitted with this Application are in conformity with the district requirements applicable to the subject property. Changes in plans or specifications shall not be made without written approval of the Village Board.
Failure to comply with the above shall constitute a violation of the provisions of the Revised Code of Ordinances of the Village.
Date:                                                                                                                                
                           Building Official
 
(Prior Code, § 23-3-20)
CHAPTER 152: CEMETERIES
Section
   
152.01   Application of village laws
   
152.02   Unlawful entry
   
152.03   Trespass, loitering; exceptions
   
152.04   Speed of vehicles
   
152.05   Operation of vehicles and parking
   
152.06   Grave decorations
   
152.07   Rubbish; debris
   
152.08   Property damage
   
152.09   Trees, shrubs, and flowers
   
152.10   Placement of headstones
§ 152.01 APPLICATION OF VILLAGE LAWS.
   All provisions of this code now in force or hereafter enacted relating to
and defining public offenses in the village shall, insofar as the same shall be
applicable, be in full force and effect in the village cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 152.02 UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than duly authorized
officers, officials, or employees of the village, to enter or be upon the
cemetery grounds during the time after sunset and before sunrise of any day
without first obtaining the permission of the Sexton or village officer in
charge of the cemetery. It shall further be unlawful, at all times, for any
person to enter or leave the grounds other than by the established and open
entrances or gateways.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 TRESPASS, LOITERING; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or trespass upon lots and
graves of the village cemetery or for the parent or guardian of any child under
the age of 16 years to permit such child to be within the cemetery grounds
unless accompanied by an adult person; provided nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit any person having lawful business in the cemetery in
connection with improvement thereof or persons visiting the graves of relatives
or friends from being in the cemetery in accordance with the rules.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 SPEED OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in the cemetery
faster than ten mph.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the cemetery except
over a roadway open for vehicular traffic, or obstruct any path or driveway
within the cemetery open to vehicular traffic. No person shall use the cemetery
grounds or any driveway therein as a public thoroughfare or drive any vehicle
through said grounds, except for purposes of making deliveries in the cemetery
or visiting any grave site.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Cemetery Sexton and his or her assistants
to direct all vehicular traffic and the Sexton is authorized to direct the
parking or standing of all vehicles in the cemetery. No person shall disobey or
disregard the directions of the Sexton relating to the movement or standing of
all vehicles within the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 GRAVE DECORATIONS.
   (A)   The placing of cut flowers or plastic flowers over individual graves
shall be permitted within six inches of the stone; however, the village shall
not be responsible for the care of such flowers or the containers in which they
are placed.
   (B)   Further, the village shall remove, without notice, all flowers, real
or artificial, that remain over 15 days.
   (C)   No additional decorations shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 RUBBISH; DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any rubbish, trash, waste
materials, litter, or debris of any kind in the village cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   No person shall remove, molest, injure, mar, deface, throw down, or destroy
any headstone, monument, survey marker, corner marker, tomb, vault, or
mausoleum or decoration on any cemetery lot in said cemetery, or open, disturb,
or molest any grave or place of burial therein. This shall not prohibit acts by
cemetery officers and employees or public officials in carrying out their
duties.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09 TREES, SHRUBS, AND FLOWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to plant any tree, shrub,
or other plant in the cemetery except those permitted by the general landscape
plan approved by the village governing body. It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person to cut down, injure, break, or destroy any tree, shrub, or
other plant growing in the cemetery or to pick, pluck, or cut any flower to
decorative plant, except as authorized by the cemetery rules.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.10 PLACEMENT OF HEADSTONES.
   The location of individual headstones shall be installed on each cemetery
plot adjacent to the east or west walkway depending on the location of the
plot.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Undermining
   
153.02   Open doors
   
153.03   Vaults
   
153.04   Stairway – railing
   
153.05   Closing street
   
153.06   Signs across streets
   
153.07   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
153.08   Deposits on sidewalks
   
153.09   Obstructing street
   
153.10   Building materials in streets
   
153.11   Merchandise on public street
   
153.12   Encroachments
   
153.13   Posting bills
   
153.14   Signs on poles
   
153.15   Injury to new pavements
   
153.16   Barbed wire fences
   
153.17   Building on public streets
Street Department
   
153.30   Department established
   
153.31   Committee on Streets
Street Improvements
   
153.45   Sidewalks
   
153.46   Storm sewers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine, in any manner, any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see
Chapter 155.
§ 153.02 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open any door or the grating of any
vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any street, alley,
or sidewalk in the village for any purpose, except the taking in and removing
of goods; and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall warn
passersby of the danger.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03 VAULTS.
   No person shall dig or cause to be dug in any street or sidewalk any vault
without covering the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent persons,
animals, and vehicles from falling into the excavation. Such vault shall be in
conformance with other code provisions.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Excavations, see
Chapter 155.
§ 153.04 STAIRWAY – RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and, in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 CLOSING STREET.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley, or
public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley, or public
place temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that
the street, alley, or public place is closed by order of the Mayor. Whenever
such signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or cross such
street, alley, or public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface, or remove
any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.5)
§ 153.06 SIGNS ACROSS STREETS.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement, or banner over or across any
street or alley in the village unless he or she has written approval of the
Village Board.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-80-17) (Prior Code, § 33.2.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any bicycle or vehicle over any sidewalk, except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot. No parking of vehicles on
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals, or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than one-half hour.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles, such as glass, which may cause injury to any person,
animal, or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley, or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials, or obstruction except as may be permitted by this code.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit
or responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.10 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREETS.
   The Street Superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or sidewalk
of the village, but, before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving
any lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street, or alley
adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed. Such person shall, at night, keep an illuminated warning light on
such materials. (See
Chapter 155.)
(Prior Code, § 33.2.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale, or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements, unless permission is granted by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.12 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.13 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print, or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, political campaign literature, or notice
of any kind on any curbstone, flagstone, or any other portion or part of any
sidewalk, or upon any tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any
private wall, door, or gate without the consent, in writing, of the owner of
such curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk, tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant,
private wall, door, or gate.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.14 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint, or fasten or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted, or fastened any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police, and/or fire
alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk,
street, alley, or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.15 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.16 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within 50 feet
of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park, or other public way or place,
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of such
public place.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.17 BUILDING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish, or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks, or alleys of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 33.2.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET DEPARTMENT
§ 153.30 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Department of the village government, which
shall be known as the Street Department. It shall embrace the Street Committee,
the Street Superintendent, and the employees. The Village Engineer, if any,
shall serve as ex-officio officer.
(Prior Code, § 33.1.1)
§ 153.31 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   The Village Board standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Street Department. It shall ascertain the
needs and conditions thereof and shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.1.2)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.45 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade
of the village and, in all cases where no grade is established, any person
building a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the
Street Superintendent and the Village Board.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay, or
construct any sidewalk along any property in the village or along any of the
streets, alleys, or public highways thereon without first obtaining permission
from the Street Superintendent to do so.
   (C)   Cost to owner for sidewalks on village property. If the landowner
wants new sidewalks, the landowner will pay or furnish all labor. If the funds
are available and the Village Board approves the request, the village shall pay
for concrete and supplies. All sidewalks put in will be done to the
specifications of the village.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, § 11-80-13) (Prior Code, § 33.5.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.46 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground waters, roof
leaders, or storm waters, rain waters, or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Superintendent of Utilities shall supervise all
connections made to the public storm sewer system or excavations for the
purpose of installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public storm water
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent, or
his or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements; use of storm water sewers. Where a storm water sewer is
accessible in a street, alley, or easement to a building or premises abutting
thereon, the surface drains, ground waters, roof leaders, or storm waters shall
be discharged into the storm water sewer unless otherwise authorized by the
village. Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any substance
other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters, or storm waters be
permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer, if any; and no
sanitary sewer, if any, shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 33.5.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Storm Sewers and Culverts, see
Chapter 156
CHAPTER 154: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
154.01   Planting
   
154.02   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
154.03   Removal
   
154.04   Injury
   
154.05   Advertisements or notices
   
154.06   Dangerous trees
   
154.07   Wires
   
154.08   Gas pipes
§ 154.01 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Street Superintendent and
shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.02 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs, or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including in the space on the right-of-
way between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway, or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board
before permission shall be granted. When falling a tree, if damage occurs to
public property, fines and repair costs may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any such public
place.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any
tree or shrub in any street, parkway, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the municipality at less a height than eight feet or in such a
way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall
be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which
such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.07 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway, or other public place without the permission of
the Village Board.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys, or other public places in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provisions in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Street Superintendent so that no
injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by
their conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.08 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 33.3.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: EXCAVATIONS
Section
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.01   Permit required
   
155.02   Applications
   
155.03   Fees
   
155.04   Bond
   
155.05   Deposit
   
155.06   Inspections
   
155.07   Location records
   
155.08   Liability of persons to village for damage
Excavation Requirements
   
155.20   Manner of excavating
   
155.21   Sidewalks
   
155.22   Restoring surface
   
155.23   Supervision
   
155.24   Tunneling
   
155.25   Protective measures and routing of traffic
   
155.26   Clearance for vital structures
   
155.27   Protection of traffic
   
155.28   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
155.29   Abandonment of substructures
   
155.30   Protection of adjoining property
   
155.31   Placement of excavated material
   
155.32   Clean-up
   
155.33   Protection of watercourses
   
155.34   Breaking through pavement
   
155.35   Depth of structures
   
155.36   Backfilling
   
155.37   Trenches in pipe laying
   
155.38   Prompt completion of work
   
155.39   Urgent work
   
155.40   Emergency action
   
155.41   Noise, dust, and debris
   
155.42   Preservation of monuments
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley, or other public place in the
village without having obtained a permit as is herein required or without
complying with the provisions of this chapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk, and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel; the size thereof; the
purpose therefor; and the person, firm, or corporation doing the actual
excavating work and the name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.2)
§ 155.03 FEES.
   The fee for such permits shall be:
   (A)   Excavation in asphalt or Portland cement concrete pavement or surface:
$0.25 per square foot;
   (B)   Excavation in brick pavement or surface: $0.25 per square foot;
   (C)   Excavation in oil treated street surface: $0.25 per square foot; and
   (D)   Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface: $0.25 per
square foot.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.3)
§ 155.04 BOND.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify the
village for any loss, liability, or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence, or manner of guarding or constructing any
such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation
licensed to do business in the state as a surety company. The Village Board may
waive the bond provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.4)
§ 155.05 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $250 if no pavement
is involved, and $1,000 if the excavation is a paved area, to ensure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any.
   (B)   From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the village of
relaying the surface of the ground or pavement and of making the refill if this
is done by the village or at its expense, and the balance shall be returned to
the applicant without interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely
refilled and the surface or pavement is restored. The Village Board may waive
the deposit in this section.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.5)
§ 155.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The Street Superintendent shall make such inspections as are reasonably
necessary in the enforcement of this chapter. The Superintendent shall have the
authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as
may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.29)
§ 155.07 LOCATION RECORDS.
   (A)   Every public utility, after the enactment of this chapter, shall
maintain records showing the location of all of its underground facilities
except relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premises or
building to a facility serving more than one premise or building, and except
oil or gas gathering or field lines.
   (B)   Every public utility shall maintain equipment which can locate such
facilities in the field.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.08 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO VILLAGE FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this code and any person or property
in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of such
violation shall be liable to the village in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the village of such person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the village
for such damages.
(Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 24, §§ 11-80-1 through 11-80-23) (Prior Code, § 33.4.31)
EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.20 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and,
in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the
making of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables, or conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.21 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Street
Superintendent and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.22 RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or other public place in the village shall
restore the surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant in compliance with the
village code(s) and under the supervision of the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.23 SUPERVISION.
   The Street Superintendent shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be
inspected all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street,
alley, or other place in the village to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten
hours before the work or refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.9)
§ 155.24 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the village which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement provided that upon completion of the work
involved the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.25 PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation
in or upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for safety of the general public.
   (B)   Barriers, warning signs, lights, and the like shall conform to the
requirements of all applicable village codes. Warning lights shall be flares,
torches, lanterns, electrical markers, or flashers used to indicate a hazard to
traffic from sunset of each day to sunrise of the next day. Torches shall be
open wick or flame flares or bombs generally used in connection with roadway
repairs or construction and operating on kerosene or similar fluid.
   (C)   Lanterns shall burn kerosene or a similar fluid and have clear red or
ruby globes. Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not replace,
light sources. The Village Board may restrict the use of lanterns or open flame
devices in fire hazard areas.
   (D)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that, during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as near normal as
possible shall be maintained, at all times, so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public.
   (E)   When traffic conditions permit, the Street Superintendent may, by
written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is
necessary. Such written approval may require that the permittee give
notification to various public agencies and to the general public. In such
cases, such written approval shall not be valid until such notice is given.
   (F)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.26 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.27 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle traffic
at all street intersections where possible and safe crossings for pedestrians
at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made across any
public street, alley, or sidewalk, adequate crossings shall be maintained for
vehicles and for pedestrians. If the street is not wide enough to hold the
excavated material without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at
least one-half of the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk
line.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.28 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Street Superintendent and the owner of the facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be moved
to accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the
permittee. The cost of moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly
borne by the permitting unless it makes other arrangements with the person
owning the facility. The permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or
otherwise, all pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or other apparatus which may be
in any way affected by the excavation work, and do everything necessary to
support, sustain, and protect them under, over, along, or across said work. The
permittee shall secure approval of method of support and protection for the
owner of the facility.
   (B)   In case any of said pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or apparatus should
be damaged and, for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly
notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the
agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be charged
to the permittee. It is the intent of this division (B) that the permittee
shall assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only exception will
be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the
owning utility. The village shall not be made a party to any action because of
this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and
location of all underground facilities and protect the same against damage.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.29 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling, or having an interest therein, shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Street Superintendent a statement, in writing,
giving in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If such
abandoned substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of an
installation of the village or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the village or any other public body.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.30 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his, her, or its own
expense, preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing
proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where,
in the protection of such property, it is necessary to enter upon private
property for the purpose of taking appropriate protecting measures, the
permittee shall obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such
purpose and if he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Street Superintendent
may authorize him or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose
of making the property safe.
   (B)   The permittee shall, at his, her, or its own expense, shore up and
protect all buildings, walls, fences, or other property likely to be damaged
during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from his, her, or
its failure to properly protect and carry out said work. Whenever it may be
necessary for the permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be
reseeded or the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after
ditches have been backfilled as required in this chapter. All construction and
maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area
clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that
which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even
temporarily, any trees or shrubs which exist in parking street areas without
first obtaining the consent of the appropriate village department or official
having supervision of such property.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.31 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as not to
endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians, or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Street Superintendent shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then re-haul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Street
Superintendent. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.32 CLEAN-UP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock, and other debris resulting from such work.
All clean-up operations at the location of such excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Street Superintendent. From time to time, as may be ordered
by the Street Superintendent, and, in any event, immediately after completion
of said work, the permitttee shall, at his, her, or its own expense, clean up
and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from said
work, and, upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to
do so by the Street Superintendent, said work may be done by the Superintendent
and the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be
liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.33 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the
full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the
face of such curb at the gutter line. Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting
street, an adequate waterway shall be provided and at all times maintained.
   (B)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water,
muck, silt, slickings, or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting
from sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage
resulting from its failure to so provide.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.34 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Street
Superintendent when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch may be required by the Street Superintendent when
circumstances warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent
outside the limits of the excavation over cave-outs, over breaks, and small
floating sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Street Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and over breaks and
the sub-grade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the center line of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Street Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.35 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall, without written permission of the Street Superintendent,
install any substructure except manholes, vaults, valve casings, culverts, and
catch basins at a vertical distance less than the following:
   (A)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If said flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street;
   (B)   Parkway.
      (1)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway.
      (2)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below the
top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
   (C)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface. Nothing in this
section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to maintain said specifications
as required herein upon subsequent changes of grade in the surface unless the
grade in said substructure interferes with the maintenance of or travel on a
public street.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.36 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the sub-grade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the Village
Board. Broken pavement, large stones, roots, and other debris shall not be used
in the backfill.
   (B)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation unless otherwise specified. The Street Superintendent may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or
her opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the Village
Board. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.37 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of an open trench permissible, at any time, shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.38 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or travel
thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.24)
§ 155.39 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public,
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Street Superintendent shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of workers and adequate facilities
be employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation
work may be completed as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.40 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Street Superintendent
for such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.26)
§ 155.41 NOISE, DUST, AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce, to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of the
excavation work, noise, dust, and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and shall not use, except in case of emergency as herein
otherwise provided, any tool, appliance, or equipment producing noise of
sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the
neighboring property.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.42 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey bench mark within the village shall not be removed or
disturbed or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining
permission, in writing, from the Village Board to do so. Permission to remove
or disturb such monuments, reference points, or benchmarks shall only be
granted upon condition that the person applying for such permission shall pay
all expenses incident to the proper replacement of this monument by the
village.
(Prior Code, § 33.4.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 156: STORM SEWERS AND CULVERTS
Section
   
156.01   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
156.02   Culvert policy
   
156.03   Permit required; replacement cost
   
156.04   Type of culvert
   
156.05   Cost of installation
   
156.06   Backfill cost
   
156.07   Replacement cost
§ 156.01 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer, if any, in any
public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.02 CULVERT POLICY.
   Upon request of the owner of a lot, the village will purchase and install a
driveway culvert. Any culvert requested that exceeds 20 linear feet shall be
installed at the expense of the lot owner. The Street Department shall be
responsible for no more than one culvert per residential home or business
establishment.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.2)
§ 156.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; REPLACEMENT COST.
   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert without
first obtaining a permit from the Street Committee. The expense of replacing
any culvert shall be borne by the person making application for the permit to
install the culvert.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.04 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open ditches.
The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be reinforced
concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of 16
gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of
16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drainpipe (Class IV), or of such other material
as determined by the Street Committee, depending on the conditions existing.
The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade, and constructed
with couplings, as determined by the Street Committee. The village shall
install the culvert.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.05 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Street Superintendent determines necessary depending on the conditions
existing.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.06 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and place such backfill material as the Street Superintendent
determines necessary to complete the project.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.07 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the same.
(Prior Code, § 33.6.7)
CHAPTER 157: DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
157.01   Permits required
   
157.02   Grade surface
   
157.03   Specifications
   
157.04   Breaking curb; bond required
   
157.05   Repair
§ 157.01 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across any
sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall be
accompanied by the fee required. No permit for construction of a driveway for
commercial use or for the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of
the premises served shall be issued, except upon the order of the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33.7.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.02 GRADE SURFACE.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression, or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous to
pedestrians or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk or be other than level.
(Prior Code, § 33.7.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.03 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Street Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33.7.3)
§ 157.04 BREAKING CURB; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a permit can be issued to break a curb in the village for the
installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a bond or cash in the amount
of $100 is required to be posted with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33.7.4)
§ 157.05 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(Prior Code, § 33.7.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                       Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                   10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                   10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                   10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                   10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                   10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                      10.04
5 ILCS 425 et seq.               33.01
5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.             33.04,
                                 33.05
5 ILCS 425/35                    33.02
5 ILCS 425/83                    33.01
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.           33.20
5 ILCS 430/5-15                  33.20
5 ILCS 430/5-65                  33.39
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40   33.20
5 ILCS 430/15-10                 33.38
5 ILCS 430/50-5                  33.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5                  33.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)               33.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)               33.20
65 ILCS 5                        10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                 36.096
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                 36.095,
                                 36.999
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13               90.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13(1)            90.07
220 ILCS 5/16-104                36.095
220 ILCS 5/16-204                36.095
430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.            131.20
625 ILCS 5/1-168.8               73.02
625 ILCS 5/1-188                 10.02
625 ILCS 5/11-31-1               150.10
625 ILCS 5/11-31-2               150.10
625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502 73.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1428               73.01,
                                 73.03
625 ILCS 5/12-100 et seq.        72.01
720 ILCS 5/2-1                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.           130.02
740 ILCS 174/15(a)               33.38
740 ILCS 174/15(b)               33.38
775 ILCS 5/6-101                 33.38
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
1.1.1              10.01
1.1.2              10.18
1.1.3              10.06
1.1.4              10.19
1.1.5              10.20
1.1.8              10.06
1.1.9              10.21
1.1.10             10.22
1.1.11             10.10
1.1.12             10.23
1.1.13             10.04
1-1-14             10.01
1-1-15             10.03
1-1-20             10.99
1-1-21             10.35
1-1-22             10.36
1-1-23             10.37
1-2-1              30.25
1-2-2              30.26
1-2-3              30.27
1-2-4              30.28
1-2-5              30.29
1-2-6              30.30
1-2-7              30.31
1-2-8              30.32
1-2-9              30.33
1-2-12             30.34
                   32.01,
                   32.02,
1-2-15             32.03,
                   32.04,
                   32.05
1-2-18             11.01
1-2-19             30.01
1-2-20             30.02
1-2-21             30.03
1-2-22             30.04
1.2.23             30.05
1.2.24             30.06
1.2.25             30.07
1.2.26             30.08
1.2.27             30.09
1.2.28             30.10
1.2.29             30.11
1.2.30             30.12
1.2.31             30.13
1.2.32             30.14
1.2.35             30.45
1.2.36             30.46
1.2.37             30.47
1.2.38             30.48
1.2.39             30.49
1.2.40             30.50
1.2.41             30.51
1.2.42             30.52
1.2.43             30.53
1.2.44             30.54
1.2.45             30.55
1.2.46             30.56
1.2.48             30.57
1.2.49             30.58
1.2.52             31.15
1.2.53             31.16
1.2.54             31.17
1.2.55             31.18
1.2.56             31.19
1.2.57             31.20
1.2.58             31.21
1.2.59             31.22
1.2.60             31.23
1.2.61             31.24
1.2.62             31.25
1.2.63             31.26
1.2.64             31.27
1.2.65             31.28
1.2.66             31.29
1.2.71             31.40
1.2.72             31.41
1.2.73             31.42
1.2.74             31.43
1.2.75             31.44
1.2.76             31.45
1.2.77             31.46
1.2.78             31.47
1.2.79             31.48
1.2.80             31.49
1.2.81             31.50
1.2.82             31.51
1.2.86             31.65
1.2.87             31.66
1.2.88             31.67
1-3-1              31.01
1-4-1              31.80
1-4-2              31.81
3-1-1              91.20
3-1-2              91.21
3-1-3              91.22
3-1-4              91.23
3-1-5              91.24
3-1-6              91.25
3-1-7              91.26
3-1-8              91.27
3-1-9              91.28
3-1-10             91.29
3-1-11             91.30
3-1-12             91.31
3-1-13             91.32
3-1-14             91.33
3-1-15             91.34
3-2-1              91.01
3-2-2              91.02
3-2-3              91.03
3-2-4              91.04
3-2-5              91.05
3-2-6              91.06
3-2-7              91.07
3-2-8              91.08
3-2-9              91.09
6-1-1              150.01,
                   150.02
6-1-2              150.03
6-1-3              150.04
6-1-4              150.05
6.1.5              150.06
6.1.6              150.07
6.1.7              150.08
6.1.8              150.09
6.1.9              150.10
6-2-1              150.25
6-2-2              150.26
6-2-3              150.27
6-2-4              150.28
6-2-5              150.29
6-2-6              150.30
6-2-7              150.31
6-2-8              150.32
6-2-9              150.33
6-2-10             150.34
7-1-1              110.01
7-1-2              110.02
7-1-3              110.03
7-1-4              110.04
7-1-5              110.05
7-1-6              110.06
7-1-7              110.07
7-1-8              110.08
7-1-9              110.09
7-1-10.1           110.20
7-1-10.2           110.21
7-1-11.1           110.35
7-1-11.2           110.36
7-1-11.3           110.37
7-1-11.4           110.38
7-1-12             110.39
7-1-13.1           110.50
7-1-13.2           110.51
7-1-13.3           110.52
7-1-13.4           110.53
7-1-13.5           110.54
7-1-14             110.55
7-1-15             110.56
7-1-16             110.57
7-2-1              112.01
7-2-2              112.02
7-2-3              112.03
7-2-4              112.04
7-2-5              112.05
7-2-6              112.06
7-2-7              112.07
7-2-8              112.08
7-2-9              112.09
7-2-10             112.10
7-3-1              112.25
7-3-2              112.26
7-3-3              112.27
7-3-4              112.28
7-3-5              112.29
7-3-6              112.30
7-3-7              112.31
7-3-8              112.32
7-3-9              112.33
7-3-10             112.34
7-3-11             112.35
7-3-12             112.36
                   113.01,
7-4-1              113.02,
                   113.03
10-1-1             114.01
10-1-2             114.02
10-1-3             114.03
10-1-4             114.04
10-1-5             114.05
10-1-6             114.06
10-1-7             114.07
10-1-8             114.08
10-1-9             114.09
10-1-10            114.10
10-1-11            114.11
10-1-12            114.12
10-1-13            114.13
10-1-14            114.14
10-1-15            114.15
10-1-16            114.16
10-1-17            114.17
10-1-18            114.18
10-1-19            114.19
10-1-20            114.20
10-1-22            114.21
10-1-23            114.22
12-1-1             152.01
12-1-2             152.02
12-1-3             152.03
12-1-4             152.04
12-1-5             152.05
12-1-6             152.06
12-1-7             152.07
12-1-8             152.08
12-1-9             152.09
12-1-10            152.10
21-1-1             111.01
21-1-2             111.02
21-1-3             111.03
21-1-4             111.04
21-1-5             111.05
21-1-6             111.06
21-1-7             111.07
21-1-8             111.08
21-1-9             111.09
21-1-10            111.10
23-1-1             151.001
23-1-2             151.002
23-1-3             151.003
23-2-1             151.015
23-2-2             151.016
23-2-3             151.017
23-2-4             151.018
23-2-5             151.019
23-2-6             151.020
23-3-1             151.035
23-3-2             151.036
23-3-3             151.037
23-3-4             151.038
23-3-5             151.039
23-3-6             151.040
23-3-7             151.041
23-3-10            151.055
23-3-12            151.057
23-3-13            151.058
23-3-16            151.070
23-3-17            151.071
                   151.072,
23-3-20            151.073,
                   151.074
23-3-22            151.056
24-1-1             70.01
24-2-1             70.02
24-2-2             70.03
24-2-3             70.04
24-2-4             70.05
24-2-5             70.06
24-2-6             70.07
24-2-7             70.08
24-2-8             70.09,
                   70.99
24-3-1             71.01
24-3-2             71.02
24-3-3             71.03
24-3-4             71.04
24-3-5             71.05
24-4-1             71.20
                   71.21,
                   71.22,
                   71.23,
                   71.24,
24-4-2             71.25,
                   71.26,
                   71.27,
                   71.28,
                   71.29
24-4-3             71.30
24-5-1             72.01
24-5-2             72.02
24-5-3             72.03
24-5-4             72.04
24-5-5             72.05
24-5-6             72.06
24-5-7             72.07
24-6-1             74.01
24-6-2             74.02
24-6-3             74.03
24-6-4             74.04
24-6-5             74.05
24-6-6             74.06
24-6-7             74.07
24-6-8             90.01
24-7-1             95.01
24-7-2             95.02
24-7-3             95.03
24-7-4             95.04
24-7-5             95.05
24-7-6             95.06
24-7-7             95.07
24-7-8             95.08
24-7-9             95.09
24-7-10            95.10
24-7-11            95.11
24-7-12            95.12
24-7-13            95.13
25-1-1             90.01
25-1-2             90.02
25-1-3             90.03
25-1-4             90.04
25-1-5             90.05
25-1-7             90.06
25-1-8             90.07
25-1-9             90.08
25-1-10            90.09
25-2-1             93.01
25-2-2             93.02
25-2-3             93.03
25-2-4             93.04
25-2-5             93.05
25-2-6             93.06
25-2-7             93.07
25-2-8             93.08
25-2-9             93.09
25-3-1             94.01
25-3-2             94.02
25-3-3             94.03
25-3-4             94.04
25-3-5             94.05
25-3-6             94.06
25-3-7             94.07
25-4-1             96.01
25-4-2             96.02
25-4-3             96.03
25-4-4             96.99
25-5-1             95.25
25-5-2             95.26
25-5-3             95.27
27-1-1             130.01
27-1-2             130.02
27-2-1             131.01
27-2-2             131.02
27-2-3             134.01
27-2-4             134.02
27-2-5             134.03
27-2-6             132.01
27-2-7             132.02
27-2-8             135.03
27-2-9             134.04
27-2-10            131.03
27-2-11            131.04
27-2-12            130.03
27-2-13            132.03
27-2-14            130.04
27-2-15            132.04
27-2-16            134.05
27-2-17            131.20
27-2-18            131.21
27-2-19            132.05
27-2-20            131.35
27-2-21            134.06
27-2-22            132.06
27-2-24            132.05
27-2-25            131.36
27-2-26            135.01
27-2-27            135.02
27-3-1             132.07
27-3-2             132.08
27-3-3             132.09
27-3-4             132.10
27-3-5             132.11
27-4-1             134.20
27-4-2             134.21
27-4-3             134.22
27-4-4             134.23
27-4-5             134.24
27-5-1             136.01
27-5-2             136.02
27-5-3             136.03
27-5-4             136.04
27-5-5             136.05
27-5-6             136.06
27-5-7             136.07
27-5-8             136.08
27-5-9             136.09
27-5-10            136.10
27-5-11            136.11
27-5-12            136.12
27-5-13            136.13
27-5-14            136.14
27-5-15            136.15
27-6-1             132.25
27-6-2             132.26
27-7-1             135.15
27-7-2             135.16
27-8-1             135.03
27-8-2             133.02
27-8-3             133.03
28-1-1             92.01
28-1-2             92.02
28-1-3             92.03
28-1-4             92.04
28-1-5             92.05
28-1-6             92.06
28-1-7             92.07
28-1-8             92.08
28-1-9             92.09
28-1-10            92.10
28-1-11            92.11
30-1-1             34.01
30-1-2             34.02
30-1-3             34.03
30-1-4             34.04
30-1-5             34.05
30-1-6             34.06
30-2-1             35.01
30-2-2             35.02
30-2-3             35.03
30-2-4             35.04
30-2-5             35.05
30-2-6             35.06
30-2-7             35.07
30-2-8             35.08
30-2-9             35.09
30-2-10            35.10
30-2-11            35.11
30-2-12            35.12
30-2-13            35.13
30-2-14            35.14
30-2-15            35.15
30-2-16            35.16
30-2-17            35.17
30-2-18            35.18
30-2-19            35.19
30-2-20            35.20
33.1.1             153.30
33.1.2             153.31
33.2.1             153.01
33.2.2             153.02
33.2.3             153.03
33.2.4             153.04
33.2.5             153.05
33.2.6             153.06
33.2.7             153.07
33.2.8             153.08
33.2.9             153.09
33.2.10            153.10
33.2.11            153.11
33.2.12            153.12
33.2.13            153.13
33.2.14            153.14
33.2.15            153.15
33.2.16            153.16
33.2.17            153.17
33.3.1             154.01
33.3.2             154.02
33.3.3             154.03
33.3.4             154.04
33.3.5             154.05
33.3.6             154.06
33.3.7             154.07
33.3.8             154.08
33.4.1             155.01
33.4.2             155.02
33.4.3             155.03
33.4.4             155.04
33.4.5             155.05
33.4.6             155.20
33.4.7             155.21
33.4.8             155.22
33.4.9             155.23
33.4.10            155.24
33.4.11            155.25
33.4.12            155.26
33.4.13            155.27
33.4.14            155.28
33.4.15            155.29
33.4.16            155.30
33.4.17            155.31
33.4.18            155.32
33.4.19            155.33
33.4.20            155.34
33.4.21            155.35
33.4.22            155.36
33.4.23            155.37
33.4.24            155.38
33.4.25            155.39
33.4.26            155.40
33.4.27            155.41
33.4.28            155.42
33.4.29            155.06
33.4.30            155.07
33.4.31            155.08
33.5.1             153.45
33.5.2             153.46
33.6.1             156.01
33.6.2             156.02
33.6.3             156.03
33.6.4             156.04
33.6.5             156.05
33.6.6             156.06
33.6.7             156.07
33.7.1             157.01
33.7.2             157.02
33.7.3             157.03
33.7.4             157.04
33.7.5             157.05
36-1-1             36.045
36-1-2             36.046
36-1-3             36.047
36-2-1             36.060
36-2-2             36.061
36-2-3             36.062
36-2-4             36.063
36-3-1             36.030
36-3-2             36.031
36-3-3             36.032
36-4-1             36.075
36-4-2             36.076
36-4-3             36.077
36-4-4             36.078
36-4-5             36.079
36-4-6             36.080
36-4-7             36.081
36-4-8             36.082
36-4-9             36.083
38.1.1             50.01
38.1.2             50.02
38.1.3             50.03
38.1.4             50.04
38.2.1             50.15
38.2.2             50.16
38.2.3             50.17
38.2.4             50.18
38.2.5             50.19
38.3.1             51.01
38.3.2             51.02
38.3.3             51.03
38.3.4             51.04
38.3.5             51.05
38.3.6             51.06
38.3.7             51.07
38.3.8             51.08
38.3.9             51.09
38.3.10            51.10
38.3.11            51.11
38.3.12            51.12
38.3.13            51.13
38.3.14            51.14
38.3.17            51.25
38.3.18            51.26
38.3.19            51.27
38.3.20            51.28
38.6.1             50.30
38.6.2             50.31
38.6.3             50.32
38.6.4             50.33
38.6.5             50.34
Sch. I             Ch. 75, Sch. I
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        7-1-1998    151.001
                     36.095,
                     36.096,
                     36.097,
-        5-5-1999    36.098,
                     36.099,
                     36.100,
                     36.999
                     33.01,
                     33.02,
-        5-19-1999   33.03,
                     33.04,
                     33.05
                     36.001,
                     36.002,
                     36.003,
                     36.004,
                     36.005,
                     36.006,
                     36.007,
                     36.008,
-        12-6-2000   36.009,
                     36.010,
                     36.011,
                     36.012,
                     36.013,
                     36.014,
                     36.015,
                     36.016,
                     36.017,
                     36.018
-        5-4-2004    33.20
003      10-17-2007  95.28,
                     95.29
                     73.01,
24-7-14  7-15-2009   73.02,
                     73.03,
                     73.04
-        7-6-2011    73.02,
                     73.05
14-02    2-19-2014   91.45
-        - -2017     133.04
-        - -2017     10.99
-        - -2017     151.001,
                     151.004
-        - -2018     91.45
                     112.06,
-        - -2018     112.10,
                     112.32,
                     112.36
                     33.35,
                     33.36,
-        - -2018     33.37,
                     33.38,
                     33.39,
                     33.40
-        11-18-2022  131.20,
                     132.05
                    
 
 
 
