VILLAGE OF KARNAK, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-16-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics.
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Karnak shall be designated as
the “Code of Karnak, Illinois,” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Pulaski County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Pulaski County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Karnak.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Karnak. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Karnak.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TRUSTEE-VILLAGE FORM
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics.
CHAPTER 30: TRUSTEE-VILLAGE FORM
Section
   
30.01   Governing officers
§ 30.01 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   The village shall be governed by an elected official who is called the
President, and by an elected legislative body which is called the Board of
Trustees and which shall consist of the President and six Trustees.
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Qualifications
   
31.02   Oath; bond
   
31.03   Further duties
   
31.04   Compensation
   
31.05   Removal from office
   
31.06   Resignation
President
   
31.20   Election; term; vacancy
   
31.21   Powers and duties
   
31.22   Compensation
Clerk
   
31.35   Election; term; vacancy
   
31.36   Duties
   
31.37   Compensation
Treasurer
   
31.50   Appointment; term; vacancy
   
31.51   Duties
Other Officials
   
31.60   Appointment of other village officials
   
31.61   Duties and fees; bond
   
31.62   Certificate of appointment
   
31.63   Duty to successor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A person is not eligible for an elective village office unless
that person is a qualified elector of the village and has resided in the
village at least one year next preceding the election or appointment, except as
provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-25; 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-75(b), 65 ILCS 5/5-2-2, or 65
ILCS 5/5-2-11.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(a))
      (2)   A person is not eligible to take the oath of office for a village
office if that person is, at the time required for taking the oath of office,
in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the village or
has been convicted in any court located in the United States of any infamous
crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony, unless such person is again restored
to his or her rights of citizenship that may have been forfeited under state
law as a result of a conviction, which includes eligibility to hold elected
village office, by the terms of a pardon for the offense, has received a
restoration of rights by the Governor, or otherwise according to law. Any time
after a judgement of conviction is rendered, a person convicted of an infamous
crime, bribery, perjury, or other felony may petition the Governor for a
restoration of rights.
      (3)   The changes made to division (A)(2) above are declarative of
existing law and apply to all persons elected at the April 4, 2017 consolidated
election and to persons elected or appointed thereafter.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(b))
   (B)   No person shall be eligible for any appointive village office unless
that person is a qualified elector of the village or otherwise provided by law.
The residency requirements do not apply, however, to village engineers, health
officers, attorneys, or other officers who require technical training or
knowledge, to an appointed Village Treasurer, or to an appointed Village
Collector (unless the village has designated by ordinance that the Village
Clerk shall hold the office of Collector). The village may adopt ordinances
that allow their firefighters and police officers to reside outside the
corporate limits of the village both at the time of appointment and while
serving as a firefighter or police officer.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6)
   (C)   If a person is a resident of the village immediately prior to the
active duty military service of that person or that person’s spouse, resides
anywhere outside of the village during that active duty military service, and
immediately upon completion of that active duty military service is again a
resident of the village, then the time during which the person resides outside
the village during the active duty military service is deemed to be time during
which the person is a resident of the village for purposes of determining the
residency requirement under division (A)(1) above.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(d))
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of President or Trustees to other offices prohibited, see 50
ILCS 105/2
§ 31.02 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
village officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the
following oath:
      “I do solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of the United
States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of                according to
the best of my ability.”
   (B)   This oath, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office of the Clerk.
   (C)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
village officers, except Trustees, shall execute a bond with security, to be
approved by the Board of Trustees. The bond shall be payable to the village in
the penal sums set forth in Title XVII of this code, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of the office and the payment of all money
received by that officer, according to law and also the ordinances of the
village. The bond may provide that the obligation of the sureties shall not
extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure, or closing of any bank
or savings and loan association organized and operating either under the laws
of the state or the United States wherein the officer has placed funds in his
or her custody, if the bank or savings and loan association has been approved
by the Board of Trustees as a depository for those funds. In no case, however,
shall the President’s bond be fixed at less than $3,000. The Treasurer’s bond
shall be an amount of money that is not less than three times the latest
federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor fuel
tax purposes. These bonds shall be filed with the Clerk, except the bond of the
Clerk, which shall be filed with the Treasurer.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25, 3.1-10-30)
§ 31.03 FURTHER DUTIES.
   Every officer shall perform those duties, in addition to those which may be
prescribed by law, and be subject to other rules and regulations, as the Board
of Trustees may provide by ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All village officers, except as otherwise provided, shall receive the
salary or other compensation that is fixed by ordinance. Salaries or other
compensation shall not be increased or diminished, so as to take effect during
the term of any elected village officer. The salaries, fees, or other
compensation of any appointed village officer, not including those appointed to
fill vacancies in elective offices, may be increased but not diminished so as
to take effect during the term for which the officer was appointed. (65 ILCS 5/
3.1-50-5)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may fix the salary of all village officers and
employees, in the annual appropriation ordinance or budget ordinance. They may
fix the salary of all officers who are elected for a definite term in an
ordinance other than the appropriation or budget ordinance. Salaries which are
fixed in the annual appropriation ordinance shall neither be increased nor
diminished during the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made. Salaries
which are fixed by ordinance for those officers who are elected for a definite
term shall neither be increased nor diminished during that term, and shall be
fixed 180 days before the beginning of the terms of the officers whose
compensation is to be fixed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of President, see §
31.22
   Compensation of Trustees, see §
32.04
§ 31.05 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Except where otherwise provided by statute, the President may remove any
officer appointed by him or her under 65 ILCS 5 and this chapter, on any
written charge, whenever he or she is of the opinion that the interests of the
village demand removal, but he or she shall report the reasons for the removal
to the Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five nor more
than ten days after the removal. If the President fails or refuses to report to
the Board of Trustees the reasons for the removal, or if the Board of Trustees
by a two-thirds vote of all its members authorized by law to be elected,
disapproves of the removal, the officer thereupon shall be restored to the
office from which he or she was removed. The vote shall be by yeas and nays,
which shall be entered upon the Board’s journal. Upon restoration, the officer
shall give a new bond and take a new oath of office. No officer shall be
removed a second time for the same offense.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10)
§ 31.06 RESIGNATION.
   Any appointed officer of the village may resign from his or her office. If
an appointed officer resigns, he or she shall continue in office until a
successor has been chosen and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5(d))
PRESIDENT
§ 31.20 ELECTION; TERM; VACANCY.
   (A)   As set forth in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5, the President shall be elected by
the electors of the village at a general village election held therein.
   (B)   As set forth in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10, the President shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected
and has qualified. The four-year term for President may be changed to two years
pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-65.
   (C)   Whenever a vacancy in the office of President occurs during his or her
term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term in the manner
provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50 and 3.1-10-55. During the period from the time
that the vacancy occurs until a President is elected, and has qualified, the
vacancy may be filled by the appointment of an Acting President by the Board of
Trustees.
§ 31.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   As set forth in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5, the President of the village shall
be President of the Board of Trustees thereof and shall preside at all meetings
of the Board. He or she shall devote to the duties of his or her office
whatever time the faithful discharge thereof may require.
   (B)   The President shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by
law, including the municipal code and village ordinances, and shall take care
that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed. The President from time
to time may, and annually shall, give the Board of Trustees information
relative to the affairs of the village, and may recommend for their
consideration measures as he or she believes expedient.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5)
   (C)   The President shall have the power to administer oaths and
affirmations upon all lawful occasions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20)
   (D)   The President at all times may examine and inspect the books, records,
and papers of any agent, employee, or officer of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20)
   (E)   The President may designate in writing another person to affix the
signature of the President to any written instrument or instruments required to
be signed by the President. The President shall send written notice of this
designation to the Board of Trustees, stating the name of the person whom he or
she has selected and what instrument or instruments the person will have
authority to sign. A written signature of the President executed by the person
so designated, with the signature of the person so designated underneath, shall
be attached to the notice. The notice, with the signatures attached, shall be
recorded in the journal of the Board and then filed with the Village Clerk.
When the signature of the President is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the President in the specified manner, the instrument or
instruments, in all respects, shall be as binding on the village as if signed
by the President in person.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30)
   (F)   (1)   If the President is temporarily absent because of an incapacity
to person official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the
office, the Board of Trustees shall elect one of their members to act as
President Pro Tem. The President Pro Tem, during this absence or disability,
shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President
but shall not be entitled to vote both as President Pro Tem and as Trustee.
      (2)   In the absence of the President, Acting President, or President Pro
Tem, the Board of Trustees may elect one of their members to act as temporary
chairperson. The temporary chairperson shall have only the powers of a
presiding officer and a right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee on any
ordinance, resolution or motion.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35)
Statutory reference:
   Duties as conservator of the peace, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25
§ 31.22 COMPENSATION.
   The President shall receive the compensation that is established by the
Board of Trustees in the annual appropriation or budget ordinance or by special
ordinance. An increase or decrease in the salary of the President shall not
take effect during the term for which that President is elected. His or her
salary shall be fixed 180 days before the beginning of the term for which
compensation is to be fixed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10)
CLERK
§ 31.35 ELECTION; TERM; VACANCY.
   At every other election for Trustees, a Clerk shall also be elected who
shall hold office for a four-year term. Whenever a vacancy in the office of a
Clerk elected under this section occurs during the term, the vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the term at the next general village election as
provided by 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50. During the period from the time that the
vacancy occurs until a Clerk is elected, as provided in this section, and has
qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the appointment of an Acting Clerk by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90)
§ 31.36 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided by the Board
of Trustees, and all papers belonging to the village the custody and control of
which are not given to other officers. The Clerk shall attend all meetings of
the Board of Trustees, including executive sessions, and keep a full record of
its proceedings in the journal, except if the Clerk is the subject matter of
the meeting and his or her presence creates a conflict of interest. The record
of those proceedings shall be made available for public inspection within seven
days after being approved or accepted by the Board of Trustees as the official
minutes of their proceedings. Copies of all papers duly filed in the Clerk’s
office, and transcripts from the journals and other records and files of the
Clerk’s office, certified by the Clerk under the corporate seal, shall be
evidence in all courts in the same manner as if the originals were produced.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90)
   (B)   The Clerk shall perform those duties, in addition to those which may
be prescribed by law, and be subject to other rules and regulations, as the
Board of Trustees may provide by ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40)
   (C)   The Clerk shall appoint the various clerks and subordinates in his or
her office which the Board of Trustees may authorize, and shall be held
responsible, severally, for the fidelity of all persons so appointed by him or
her. This power, however, is subject to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/10-1-1 et
seq. The power of the Clerk is also subject to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/3.1-
30-10.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45)
   (D)   The Clerk shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations upon
all lawful occasions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk authorized to hold office of Comptroller or of Collector, see 65 ILCS
5/3.1-35-115, 3.1-35-130, and 3.1-35-135
§ 31.37 COMPENSATION.
   The Clerk shall receive the compensation that is established by the Board of
Trustees in the annual appropriation or budget ordinance or by special
ordinance. An increase or decrease in the salary of the Clerk shall not take
effect during the term for which that Clerk is elected. His or her salary shall
be fixed 180 days before the beginning of the term for which compensation is to
be fixed.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10)
TREASURER
§ 31.50 APPOINTMENT; TERM; VACANCY.
   (A)   The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint a Village Treasurer.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5)
   (B)   The Treasurer may resign from his or her office. If the Treasurer
resigns, he or she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been
chosen and has qualified.
   (C)   The term of office of the Treasurer shall not exceed that of the
President.
Statutory reference:
   Resignation of Treasurer; continuation in office, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50
§ 31.51 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the village
and shall keep his or her books and accounts in the manner prescribed by
ordinance. These books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection
of any member of the Board of Trustees, provided, however, that the village may
by ordinance designate a person or institution which, as bond trustee, shall
receive from the County Collector amounts payable to the village as taxes
levied pursuant to a bond issuance.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall give every person paying money into the
treasury a receipt, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid.
The Treasurer shall file copies of these receipts with the Clerk, with the
Treasurer’s monthly reports. If the Treasurer has in his or her possession
money properly appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon
him or her, the Treasurer shall pay the money specified in this warrant to the
person designated by the warrant.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40)
   (B)   At the end of every month, and more often if required by the Board of
Trustees, the Treasurer shall render an account under oath to the Board of
Trustees, or to an officer designated by ordinance, showing the state of the
treasury at the date of the account and the balance of money in the treasury.
The Treasurer shall accompany the account with a statement of all money
received into the treasury and on what account, together with all warrants
redeemed and paid by him. On the day he or she renders an account, these
warrants, with all vouchers held by him or her, shall be delivered to the Clerk
and filed, together with the account, in the Clerk’s office. All paid warrants
shall be marked “paid.” The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants,
which shall describe each warrant, showing its date, amount, and number, the
fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom paid, and when paid.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45)
   (C)   (1)   The Treasurer may be required to keep all funds and money in the
Treasurer’s custody belonging to the village in places of deposit designated by
ordinance. When requested by the Treasurer, the Board of Trustees shall
designate one or more banks or savings and loan associations in which may be
kept the funds and money of the village in the custody of the Treasurer. When a
bank or savings and loan association has been designated as a depository, it
shall continue as a depository until ten days have elapsed after a new
depository is designated and has qualified by furnishing the statements of
resources and liabilities as required by this section. When a new depository is
designated, the Board of Trustees shall notify the sureties of the Treasurer of
that fact in writing at least five days before the transfer of funds. The
Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or money that
the Treasurer deposits in a designated bank or savings and loan association
while the funds and money are so deposited.
      (2)   The Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan association
to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a market value
at least equal to the amount of the funds or moneys of the village deposited
with the bank or savings and loan association that exceeds the insurance
limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
      (3)   The Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment, or
withdrawal of municipal funds.
      (4)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each official
custodian of municipal funds, including, without limitation, each municipal
treasurer or finance director or each person properly designated as the
official custodian for municipal funds, including, without limitation, each
person properly designated as official custodian for funds held by an
intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool, waste management
agency, or other intergovernmental entity composed solely of participating
municipalities, is permitted to:
            1.   Combine moneys from more than one fund of a single
municipality, risk management entity, self-insurance pool, or other
intergovernmental entity composed solely of participating municipalities for
the purpose of investing such moneys;
            2.   Join with any other official custodians or treasurers of
municipal, intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool, waste
management agency, or other intergovernmental entity composed solely of
participating municipalities for the purpose of jointly investing the funds of
which the official custodians or treasurers have custody; and
            3.   Enter into agreements of any definite or indefinite term
regarding the redeposit, investment, or withdrawal of municipal, risk
management entity, self-insurance agency, waste management agency, or other
intergovernmental entity funds.
         (b)   When funds are combined for investment purposes as authorized in
this division (C), the moneys combined for those purposes shall be accounted
for separately in all respects, and the earnings from such investment shall be
separately and individually computed, recorded, and credited to the fund,
municipality, intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool,
waste management agency, or other intergovernmental entity, as the case may be,
for which the investment was acquired.
         (c)   Joint investments shall be made only in investments authorized
by law for investment of municipal funds. The grant of authority contained in
this division (C) is cumulative, supplemental, and in addition to all other
power or authority granted by any other law and shall not be construed as a
limitation of any power and authority otherwise granted.
      (5)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds
as permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act (5 ILCS 140/6).
      (6)   In addition to any other investments or deposits authorized under
this title, the village is authorized to invest the funds and public moneys in
the custody of the Treasurer in accordance with the Public Funds Investment Act
(5 ILCS 140).
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village and in his
or her custody separate and distinct from his or her own money and shall not
use, either directly or indirectly, the village’s money or warrants for the
personal use and benefit of the Treasurer or of any other person. Any violation
of this provision shall subject him or her to immediate removal from office by
the Board of Trustees, who may declare the Treasurer’s office vacant.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55)
   (E)   (1)   The Treasurer shall report to the Board of Trustees, as often as
they require, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of
the village, as shown by his or her books, up to the time of the report.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-60)
      (2)   Any Treasurer who fails, neglects, or refuses to discharge any duty
imposed on him or her, or who violates any provisions of 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65
through 3.1-35-80, is guilty of a petty offense, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 in addition to any other
penalties prescribed by law.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-80)
   (F)   All money received on any special assessment shall be held by the
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other
purpose, except to reimburse the village for money expended for the
improvement.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85)
   (G)   (1)   The Treasurer may deposit such funds in a savings and loan
association, savings bank, or state or national bank in this state, or deposit
those funds into demand deposit accounts in accordance with § 6.5 of the Public
Funds Investment Act (30 ILCS 235/6.5). When such deposits become collected
funds and are not needed for immediate disbursement, they shall be invested
within two working days at prevailing rates or better. The Treasurer or other
custodian of public funds may require such bank, savings bank, or savings and
loan association to deposit with him or her securities guaranteed by agencies
and instrumentalities of the federal government equal in market value to the
amount by which the funds deposited exceed the federally insured amount. The
Treasurer or other custodian of public funds may accept as security for public
funds deposited in such bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association any
securities or other eligible collateral authorized by §§ 11 and 11.1 of the
Deposit of State Moneys Act (15 ILCS 520/11 and 11.1) or § 6 of the Public
Funds Investment Act (30 ILCS 235/6). The Treasurer or other custodian is
authorized to enter into an agreement with any such bank, savings bank, or
savings and loan association, with any federally insured financial institution
or trust company, or with any agency of the U.S. government relating to the
deposit of such securities. The Treasurer or other custodian shall be
discharged from responsibility for any funds for which securities are so
deposited with him or her, and the funds for which securities are so deposited
shall not be subject to any otherwise applicable limitation as to amount.
      (2)   No bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association shall
receive public funds as permitted by this section, unless it has complied with
the requirements established pursuant to § 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act
(30 ILCS 235/6) or is otherwise exempt from compliance as authorized by § 6.5
of that Act (30 ILCS 235/6.5).
(30 ILCS 225/1)
OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 31.60 APPOINTMENT OF OTHER VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, shall
appoint such other officers and commissioners as are set forth in Title XVII of
this code.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5)
§ 31.61 DUTIES AND FEES; BOND.
   The President and Board of Trustees may prescribe the duties of the officers
appointed pursuant to §
31.50 and the amount to be charged for services rendered by those officers, and
may require them to execute whatever bonds are prescribed by statute or
ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-10)
§ 31.62 CERTIFICATE OF APPOINTMENT.
   Whenever a person has been appointed or elected to office, the President
shall issue a certificate of appointment or election, under the corporate seal,
to the Clerk. All officers elected or appointed under 65 ILCS 5 and this
chapter, except the Clerk, Trustees, and President, shall be commissioned by
warrant, under the corporate seal, signed by the Clerk and the presiding
officer of the Board of Trustees.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5)
§ 31.63 DUTY TO SUCCESSOR.
   Within five days after written notification and request, a person who has
been an officer of the village shall deliver to the successor in office all
property, books, and effects in the former officer’s possession, belonging to
the village. A former officer who violates this section is liable for all the
damages caused by the violation and is subject to the penalty prescribed by
ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35)
CHAPTER 32: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Composition
   
32.02   Trustees; election, term, and vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Compensation
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Proceedings before Board of Trustees
   
32.21   Presiding officer
   
32.22   Meetings
   
32.23   Quorum
   
32.24   Deferral of committee reports
Ordinances
   
32.40   Ordinances and rules to execute powers
   
32.41   Ordaining clause
   
32.42   Vote required; method of voting
   
32.43   Approval and disapproval by President
   
32.44   Reconsideration
   
32.45   Publication requirements; effective date
   
32.46   Recordation
   
32.47   Revision
   
32.48   Adoption of codes and public records by reference
Standing Committees
   
32.60   Authority to establish
   
32.61   Members
            
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the President and Trustees.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5)
§ 32.02 TRUSTEES; ELECTION, TERM, AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-10, the electors of the village
shall elect six Trustees. The term of office of the Trustees shall be four
years and until their successors are elected and have qualified. Three Trustees
shall be elected at the village election in each odd-numbered year for a term
of four years.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5)
   (B)   Whenever a vacancy in the office of a Trustee occurs during his or her
term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next
general village election as provided in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50.
Cross-reference:
   Oath requirement, see §
31.02(A) and (B)
   Qualifications for officers, see §
31.01
Statutory reference:
   Elections and primary elections to be conducted pursuant to state law, see
Illinois Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the powers and shall perform the same
duties as the city council in cities. It shall pass ordinances, resolutions,
and motions in the same manner as a city council. The President of the Board of
Trustees may exercise the same veto power and powers in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30,
and with like effect, as the Mayor of a city. The Trustees may pass motions,
resolutions, and ordinances over the President’s veto in like manner as the
alderpersons of a city council.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the President and six Trustees.
It shall meet in accordance with the Open Meeting Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. It
shall keep a journal of its own proceedings.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-5)
   (C)   The Board shall be the sole judge of the election to office of the
Trustees. It shall also be the sole judge of whether, under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5,
Trustees are eligible to hold their offices. A court, however, shall not be
prohibited from hearing and determining a proceeding in quo warranto.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-10)
   (D)   The Board shall determine its own rules of proceeding and punish its
members for disorderly conduct. With the concurrence of two-thirds of the
Trustees then holding office, it may expel a Trustee from a meeting, but not a
second time for the same incident.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15)
   (E)   The Board may prescribe, by ordinance, the times and places of the
Board meetings, and the manner in which special Board meetings may be called.
The President or any three Trustees may call special meetings of the Board. In
addition to any notice requirement prescribed by the Board, public notice of
meetings must be given as prescribed in §§ 2.02 and 2.03 of the Open Meeting
Act (5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 2.03).
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25)
   (F)   In the absence of the President, Acting President, or President Pro
Tem, the Board of Trustees may elect a Trustee to act as a temporary
chairperson. He or she shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and a
right to vote in his or her capacity as Trustee on any ordinance, resolution,
or motion.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35(b))
§ 32.04 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Each trustee shall receive the compensation that is fixed by
ordinance. Compensation shall be fixed 180 days before the beginning of the
term for which compensation is to be fixed.
   (B)   This ordinance shall specify whether Trustees are to be compensated at
an annual rate or for each meeting of the Board of Trustees actually attended
by each Trustee if public notice of the meeting was given.
   (C)   Each Trustee may receive reimbursement from the village for expenses
incurred by the member in attending committee meetings of the Board of Trustees
or for other expenses incurred by the Trustee in the course of performing
official duties.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 3.1-50-10, 3.1-50-15)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 PROCEEDINGS BEFORE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Rules of Order. The current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall
govern the proceedings of the Board of Trustees where applicable and when not
in conflict with statutes or ordinances; provided, however, that the Board may
adopt rules of order revising, repealing, amending, supplementing or
supplanting, in whole or in part, Robert’s Rules of Order. Each new Board, upon
inauguration of the village officers newly elected at any consolidated
election, shall have the right by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees to
repeal, amend, or replace any rules of order adopted by a previous Board.
   (B)   Addressing meetings. It shall be unlawful for any person to address or
attempt to address any regular or special meeting of the Board except upon the
consent of the President or with the consent of a majority of the members
present.
   (C)   Disturbing meetings. It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the Board. Any person violating any provision of
this division (C) shall be fined as provided for in §
10.99, and may be summarily ejected from the meeting and the Village Hall.
§ 32.21 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees. Except
as provided in 65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq. and 5-1-1 et seq., he or she shall not
vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion except where the vote of the Board
of Trustees has resulted in a tie; or where one-half of the Board of Trustees
elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution, or motion even though
there is no tie vote; or where a vote greater than a majority of the Board of
Trustees is required to adopt an ordinance, resolution, or motion. Nothing in
this section shall deprive an Acting President or President Pro Tem from voting
in his or her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to
another vote in his or her capacity as Acting President or President Pro Tem.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30)
§ 32.22 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold its regular meetings as set forth in Title
XVII. The President or any three Trustees may call special meetings of the
Board of Trustees. In addition to any notice requirement prescribed by the
Board of Trustees, public notice of meetings must be given as prescribed in §§
2.02 and 2.03 of the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 2.03).
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25)
§ 32.23 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do
business. A smaller number, however, may adjourn from time to time and may
compel the attendance of absentees, under penalties (including a fine for a
failure to attend) as set forth in Title XVII of this code.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20)
§ 32.24 DEFERRAL OF COMMITTEE REPORTS.
   Upon the request of any two Trustees present, any report of a committee of
the Board shall be deferred, for final action thereon, to the next regular
meeting of the Board after the report is made.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.40 ORDINANCES AND RULES TO EXECUTE POWERS.
   The Board of Trustees may pass all ordinances and make all rules and
regulations proper or necessary to carry into effect the powers granted to
village, with fines or penalties as may be deemed proper, provided that no fine
or penalty shall exceed $750.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-1)
§ 32.41 ORDAINING CLAUSE.
   The ordaining clause of ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village of         .”
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-2)
§ 32.42 VOTE REQUIRED; METHOD OF VOTING.
   (A)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion to create any liability against the village or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence of a
majority of all members then holding office on the Board of Trustees, including
the President, unless otherwise expressly provided by this code or any other
act governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution, or motion; provided
that, where the Board consists of an odd number of Trustees, the vote of the
majority of the Trustees shall be sufficient to pass an ordinance. The passage
of an ordinance, resolution, or motion to sell any school property shall
require the concurrence of three-fourths of all Trustees then holding office.
   (B)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
the designated ordinances, resolutions, or motions and recorded in the journal
of the Board. In addition, the Board of Trustees at any meeting may by
unanimous consent take a single vote by yeas and nays on the several questions
of the passage of any two or more of the designated ordinances, orders,
resolutions, or motions placed together for voting purposes in a single group,
which single vote shall be entered separately in the journal under the
designation “omnibus vote,” and in such event the Clerk may enter the words
“omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering the names of the members of the Board voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions,
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda. The taking of
such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words “omnibus vote” or
“consent agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect
as if the vote in each case had been taken separately by yeas and nays on the
question of the passage of each ordinance, order, resolution, and motion
included in such omnibus group, and separately recorded in the journal.
   (C)   Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the
passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any Trustee and
shall be recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40)
§ 32.43 APPROVAL AND DISAPPROVAL BY PRESIDENT.
   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against the village
or which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or to sell
any village or school property, and all ordinances passed by the Board of
Trustees, shall be deposited with the Clerk. Except as provided in 65 ILCS 5/4-
1-1 et seq. and 5-1-1 et seq., if the President approves of an ordinance or
resolution, the President shall sign it. Those ordinances, resolutions, and
motions which he or she disapproves shall be returned to the Board of Trustees,
with his or her written objections, at the next regular meeting of the Board
occurring not less than five days after their passage. The President may
disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any ordinance, resolution,
or motion making an appropriation, and, if so, the remainder shall be
effective. However, the President may disapprove entirely of an ordinance,
resolution, or motion making an appropriation. If the President fails to return
any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with his or her written
objections within the designated time, it shall become effective despite the
absence of his or her signature.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45)
§ 32.44 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Every resolution and motion specified in §
32.43 and every ordinance returned to the Board of Trustees by the President
shall be reconsidered by the Board of Trustees at the next regular meeting
following the regular meeting at which the Board receives the President’s
written objection. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the
Trustees then holding office on the Board shall agree at that regular meeting
to pass an ordinance, resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the President’s
refusal to approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the question of
passage over the President’s veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be
recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50)
   (B)   No vote of the Board of Trustees shall be reconsidered or rescinded at
a special meeting, unless there are present at the special meeting as many
Trustees as were present when the vote was taken.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55)
§ 32.45 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   All ordinances imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment, or
forfeiture, or making any appropriation, shall be printed or published in book
or pamphlet form, published by authority of the Board of Trustees, or be
published at least once, within 30 days after passage, in one or more
newspapers published in the village, or if no newspaper is published therein,
then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the village.
If there is an error in printing, the publishing requirement of this section
shall be satisfied if those portions of the ordinance that were erroneously
printed are republished, correctly, within 30 days after the original
publication that contained the error. The fact that an error occurred in
publication shall not affect the effective date of the ordinance so published.
If the error in printing is not corrected within 30 days after the date of the
original publication that contained the error, as provided in the preceding
sentence, the corporate authorities may by ordinance declare the ordinance that
was erroneously published to be nevertheless valid and in effect no sooner than
the tenth day after the date of the original publication, notwithstanding the
error in publication, and shall order the original ordinance to be published
once more within 30 days after the passage of the validating ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in this section, no such ordinance shall take
effect until ten days after it is so published. However, ordinances
establishing rules and regulations for the construction of buildings or any
part thereof, or for the development or operation of camps accommodating
persons in house trailers, house cars, cabins, or tents, where the rules and
regulations have been previously printed in book or pamphlet form, may by their
terms provide for the adoption of the rules and regulations or portions thereof
by reference thereto without further printing, or publication, if not less than
one copy of the rules and regulations in book or pamphlet form has been filed
in the office of the Clerk for use and examination by the public at least 30
days prior to the adoption thereof.
   (C)   All other ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall take effect upon
their passage unless they otherwise provide.
   (D)   Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, any
ordinance which contains a statement of its urgency in the preamble or body
thereof, other than an ordinance relating to finance, appropriations, or taxes,
adopted under 65 ILCS 5/8-1-1 et seq. may take effect immediately upon its
passage provided that the Board of Trustees, by a vote of two-thirds of all the
members then holding office, so direct. The decision of the Board of Trustees
as to the urgency of any ordinance shall not be subject to judicial review
except for an abuse of discretion.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4)
§ 32.46 RECORDATION.
   The Clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees. Immediately following each
ordinance the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage and of
the publication or posting, where required, of the ordinance. This record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage, and of the publication or posting of ordinances.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-5)
§ 32.47 REVISION.
   The President may appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, one or more competent persons to prepare and submit to the Board
of Trustees for adoption or rejection, an ordinance to revise the village
ordinances. The compensation for this revision shall be fixed by the Board of
Trustees and paid out of the village treasury.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-3)
§ 32.48 ADOPTION OF CODES AND PUBLIC RECORDS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC RECORD. Any village, state, or federal statute, rule, or
regulation and any ordinance or resolution of the county in which the village
is located, adopted prior to the exercise by any village of the authority to
incorporate by reference herein granted; however, this definition shall not
include the village ordinances, rules, or regulations of any village except
those of the village which is exercising the right to incorporate by reference,
nor shall this definition include the state laws, rules, or regulations of any
state other than the State of Illinois.
      PUBLISHED. Printed, lithographed, multigraphed, mimeographed, or
otherwise reproduced.
      REGULATIONS. Any published compilation of rules and regulations which
have been prepared by nationally recognized technical trade or service
associations and shall include specifically building codes; plumbing codes;
electrical wiring codes; fire prevention codes; codes for the slaughtering,
processing, and selling of meats and meat products for human consumption; and
codes for the production, pasteurizing, and sale of milk and milk products.
(65 ILCS 5/1-3-1)
   (B)   The village may adopt by reference, as criteria for the issuance of
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or installation permits, all or part
of the provisions of regulations, without setting forth those provisions in
full, if at least one copy of those regulations is filed in the office of the
Clerk and is kept available for public use, inspection, and examination. The
village may likewise adopt by reference the provisions of public records, if at
least three copies of the public record are filed with and kept on file in the
office of the Clerk as provided for regulations. The filing requirement is not
deemed to be complied with unless the required copy of regulations or copies of
the public record are filed with the Clerk for a period of 30 days before the
adoption of the ordinance that incorporates the regulations or public record by
reference. Regulations or a public record of a jurisdiction other than the
state may not be adopted by reference covering any subject matter for which
standards are available in any public record of the state.
(65 ILCS 5/1-3-2)
   (C)   The codes which have been adopted by the village pursuant to division
(B) are set forth in Title XVII of this code.
Statutory reference:
   Incorporation by reference of technical codes and public records, see 50
ILCS 220/1 et seq.
STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 32.60 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The Board of Trustees may have one or more standing committees with the
powers, functions, and duties established by ordinance. The standing committees
which have been established and their duties are set forth in Title XVII of
this code.
§ 32.61 MEMBERS.
   The members of each standing committee shall be appointed from time to time
by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Administration of finances; fiscal year
   
33.02   Annual appropriation ordinance
   
33.03   Supplemental appropriation; transfers
   
33.04   Limitations; emergency; borrowing
   
33.05   Levy and collection of taxes
   
33.06   Annual audits and reports
   
33.07   Contracts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ADMINISTRATION OF FINANCES; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall control the finances of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/8-1-1)
   (B)   The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 of each year and
shall end on April 30 of the following year.
§ 33.02 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance within the first quarter
of each fiscal year, to be termed the annual appropriation ordinance. On and
after January 1, 2020, if a disaster, state of emergency, or national emergency
is declared within the 60 days preceding the end of the first quarter of a
municipality's fiscal year and the disaster, emergency, or declaration impacts
the municipality, the time limit to pass the annual appropriation ordinance
shall be extended for the duration of the disaster or emergency and for 60 days
thereafter. During the extended period, the municipality may expend sums of
money up to amounts budgeted or appropriated for those objects and purposes in
the previous fiscal year to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of
the municipality. In this ordinance the Board may appropriate sums of money
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
village, including the amounts to be deposited in the reserves provided for in
the State Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., and shall specify the objects
and purposes for which these appropriations are made, and the amount
appropriated for each object or purpose. Among the objects and purposes
specified shall be the reserves provided for in the State Pension Code.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.03, no further appropriations shall be made at any other time within the
same fiscal year, unless a proposition to make each additional appropriation
has been first sanctioned by a petition signed by electors of the village
numbering more than 50% of the number of votes cast for the candidates for
President at the last preceding general village election at which a President
was elected, by a petition signed by them, or by a majority of those voting on
the question at a regular election or at an emergency referendum authorized in
accordance with the general election law. The Board of Trustees may by
ordinance initiate the submission of the proposition. During any fiscal year,
the Board may adopt a supplemental appropriation ordinance in an amount not in
excess of the aggregate of any additional revenue available to the
municipality, or estimated to be received by the municipality after the
adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance for that fiscal year, or from
fund balances available when the annual appropriation ordinance was adopted but
that were not appropriated at that time. The provisions of this section
prohibiting further appropriations without sanction by petition or election
shall not be applicable to the supplemental appropriation for that fiscal year.
The Board at any time, however, by a two-thirds vote of all the members, may
make transfers within any department or other separate agency of the village
government of sums of money appropriated for one corporate object or purpose to
another corporate object or purpose, but no appropriation for any object or
purpose shall thereby be reduced below an amount sufficient to cover all
obligations incurred or to be incurred against the appropriation. Nothing in
this section shall deprive the corporate authorities of the power to provide
for and cause to be paid from the funds of the municipality any charge imposed
by law without the action of the Board, the payment of which is ordered by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to the adoption of the annual appropriation
ordinance, the Board of Trustees of all villages over 2,000 in population shall
make the proposed appropriation ordinance or a formally prepared appropriation
or budget document upon which the annual appropriation ordinance will be based
conveniently available to public inspection and shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon. Notice of this hearing shall be given publication in one or
more newspapers published in the village, or if there is none published in the
village, in a newspaper published in the county and having general circulation
in the village, at least ten days prior to the time of the public hearing. The
notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the place where copies
of the proposed appropriation ordinance or formally prepared appropriation or
budget document will be accessible for examination. The annual appropriation
ordinance may be adopted at the same meeting at which the public hearing is
held or at any time after that public hearing.
   (D)   After the public hearing and before final action is taken on the
appropriation ordinance, the Board may revise, alter, increase, or decrease the
items contained in the ordinance.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, any village in which 65
ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq. becomes effective after the annual appropriation ordinance
has been passed for the current fiscal year may amend the appropriation
ordinance in any manner necessary to make 65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq. fully
operative in that village for that fiscal year. However, no such amendment
shall be construed to affect any tax levy made on the basis of the original
appropriation ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/8-2-9)
   (F)   The Board of Trustees shall file with the County Clerk within 30 days
of their adoption a certified copy of its appropriation and budget ordinances
or resolutions, as well as an estimate, certified by the chief fiscal officer
of the village, of revenues, by source, anticipated to be received by the
village in the following fiscal year. If the Board fails to file the required
documents, the County Clerk shall have the authority, after giving timely
notice of the failure to the village, to refuse to extend the tax levy until
the documents are so filed. In determining the amount of maximum tax authorized
to be levied, the assessed valuation of the current year of property as
assessed and reviewed by the village assessment officials, as equalized or
confirmed by the state, shall be used.
(35 ILCS 200/18-50)
§ 33.03 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION; TRANSFERS.
   (A)   During any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may adopt a supplemental
appropriation ordinance in an amount not in excess of the aggregate of any
additional revenue available to the village, or estimated to be received by the
village after the adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance for that
fiscal year, or from fund balances available when the annual appropriation
ordinance was adopted but that were not appropriated at that time. The
provision of §
33.02 prohibiting further appropriations without sanction by petition or
election shall not be applicable to the supplemental appropriation for that
fiscal year.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees at any time, however, by a two-thirds vote of
all the members of the body, may make transfers within any department or other
separate agency of the village government, of sums of money appropriated for
one village object or purpose to another village object or purpose, but no
appropriation for any object or purpose shall thereby be reduced below an
amount sufficient to cover all obligations incurred or to be incurred against
the appropriation. Nothing herein contained shall deprive the Board of Trustees
of the power to provide for and cause to be paid from the funds of the village
any charge imposed by law without the action of the Board of Trustees, the
payment of which is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(65 ILCS 5/8-2-9)
§ 33.04 LIMITATIONS; EMERGENCY; BORROWING.
   (A)   Neither the Board of Trustees nor any department or officer of the
village shall add to the village expenditures in any fiscal year anything over
and above the amount provided for in the annual appropriation ordinance of that
year. No expenditure for an improvement to be paid for out of the General Fund
of the village shall exceed in any fiscal year the amount provided for that
improvement in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Trustees, by a
two-thirds vote, from making additional appropriations for the purpose of
making improvements or restorations, the necessity for which is caused by any
casualty or accident happening after the annual appropriation ordinance is
passed, nor from making additional appropriations necessary to meet any
emergency, happening after and unforeseen at the time of passing the annual
appropriation ordinance. EMERGENCY, as used in this division (B), means a
condition requiring immediate action to suppress or prevent the spread of
disease, or to prevent or remove imminent danger to persons or property. For
the purpose of providing for these additional appropriations, the Board of
Trustees, by a two-thirds vote, may authorize the President to borrow the
amount of money necessary therefor for a space of time not extending beyond the
close of the next fiscal year. The sum borrowed and the interest thereon, shall
be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy and
embraced therein.
   (C)   Should a judgment be obtained against the village, the President,
under the sanction of the Board of Trustees, may borrow a sufficient amount to
pay the judgment for a space of time not extending beyond the close of the next
fiscal year. This sum and the interest thereon shall in like manner be added to
the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the next year and
embraced therein.
(65 ILCS 5/8-1-6)
§ 33.05 LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   The Board of Trustees shall levy and collect taxes for corporate purposes in
the manner provided in 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.
§ 33.06 ANNUAL AUDITS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the funds and accounts
of the village to be made by an accountant as required by 65 ILCS 5/8-8-3 et
seq.
(65 ILCS 5/8-8-3(a))
   (B)   The village shall, within six months after the close of each fiscal
year, unless an extension is granted, file with the State Comptroller an audit
report and supplemental report or a financial report as required in 65 ILCS 5/
8-8-3 and 8-8-4.
§ 33.07 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No contract shall be entered into by the village for goods or
services, unless it shall be approved by resolution or ordinance duly passed by
the Board of Trustees, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The President may approve contracts for goods and services where the
contract amount is less than $500, without the approval of the Board of
Trustees. However, the President shall report any such contract to the Board of
Trustees at the Board meeting next following approval of the contract.
   (C)   All contracts of the village shall be signed by the President.
   (D)   No contract shall be approved for which there is no prior
appropriation.
   (E)   Any work or other public improvement not paid for in whole or in part
by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof shall
exceed $5,000, shall:
      (1)   Be let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for bids
in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the village or, in the
case of public works, in such manner as may be established by the Board of
Trustees after consultation with a registered professional engineer; or
      (2)   Let without bids if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of the
Trustees then holding office, the President not voting.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of public works by village employees using purchased materials,
see 65 ILCS 5/8-9-1
   General requirements for contracts, see 65 ILCS 5/8-9-1 et seq.
   General requirements for contracts for water, see 65 ILCS 5/11-124-1 et seq.
   Interest of village officers in contracts, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10 and 4-8-
6; see also 50 ILCS 105/3 et seq.
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Policy
   
34.03   Individual privacy protected
   
34.04   Public records available
   
34.05   Requests to be in writing; oral requests
   
34.06   Fees
   
34.07   Time limit for compliance with request
   
34.08   Extension of time limit; notice
   
34.09   Unduly burdensome requests
   
34.10   Certain information exempt from inspection and copying
   
34.11   Notice of denial of request
   
34.12   Granting of request; procedure for inspection
   
34.13   Written request not required for certain documents
   
34.14   Dissemination of information about public bodies
   
34.15   Requests for commercial purposes
   
34.16   Freedom of Information officers
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.
      (1)   The use of any part of a public record or records, or information
derived from public records, in any form for sale, resale, or solicitation or
advertisement for sales or services.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, requests made by news media and
non-profit, scientific, or academic organizations shall not be considered to be
made for a COMMERCIAL PURPOSE when the principal purpose of the request is:
         (a)   To access and disseminate information concerning news and
current or passing events,
         (b)   For articles of opinion or features of interest to the public,
or
         (c)   For the purpose of academic, scientific, or public research or
education.
   COPYING. The reproduction of any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical or other process, device or means now known or hereafter
developed and available to the village.
   HEAD OF THE PUBLIC BODY. The president or individual otherwise holding
primary executive and administrative authority for the village, or such
person’s duly authorized designee.
   NEWS MEDIA. A newspaper or other periodical issued at regular intervals
whether in print or electronic format, a news service whether in print or
electronic format, a radio station, a television station, a television network,
a community antenna television service, or a person or corporation engaged in
making news reels or other motion picture news for public showing.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization or
association, acting individually or as a group.
   PRIVATE INFORMATION. Unique identifiers, including a person’s social
security number, driver’s license number, employee identification number,
biometric identifiers, personal financial information, passwords or other
access codes, medical records, home or personal telephone numbers, and personal
email addresses. PRIVATE INFORMATION also includes home address and personal
license plates, except as otherwise provided by law or when compiled without
possibility of attribution to any person. For a public body that is a HIPAA-
covered entity, PRIVATE INFORMATION includes electronic medical records and all
information, including demographic information, contained within or extracted
from an electronic medical records system operated or maintained by the public
body in compliance with state and federal medical privacy laws and regulations,
including, but not limited to, the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act and its regulations, 45 C.F.R. parts 160 and 164. As used in
this section, HIPAA-COVERED ENTITY has the meaning given to the term COVERED
ENTITY in 45 C.F.R. § 160.103.
   PUBLIC BODY. All legislative, executive, administrative, or advisory bodies
of the state, state universities and colleges, counties, townships, cities,
villages, incorporated towns, school districts and all other municipal
corporations, boards, bureaus, committees, or commissions of this state, any
subsidiary bodies of any of the foregoing including but not limited to
committees and subcommittees thereof, and a School Finance Authority created
under 105 ILCS 5/1E-1 et seq. PUBLIC BODY does not include a child death review
team or the Illinois Child Death Review Teams Executive Council established
under the Child Death Review Team Act (20 ILCS 515), or a regional youth
advisory board or the Statewide Youth Advisory Board established under the
Department of Children and Family Services Statewide Youth Advisory Board Act
(20 ILCS 527).
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All records, reports, forms, writings, letters, memoranda,
books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms, cards, tapes, recordings,
electronic data processing records, electronic communications, recorded
information and all other documentary materials pertaining to the transaction
of public business, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having been
prepared by or for, or having been or being used by, received by, in the
possession of, or under the control of the any public body.
   RECURRENT REQUESTER.
      (1)   As used in 5 ILCS 140/3.2, a person that, in the 12 months
immediately preceding the request, has submitted to the same public body:
         (a)   A minimum of 50 requests for records,
         (b)   A minimum of 15 requests for records within a 30-day period, or
         (c)   A minimum of seven requests for records within a seven-day
period.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, requests made by news media and
non-profit, scientific, or academic organizations shall not be considered in
calculating the number of requests made in the time periods in this definition
when the principal purpose of the requests is:
         (a)   To access and disseminate information concerning news and
current or passing events,
         (b)   For articles of opinion or features of interest to the public,
or
         (c)   For the purpose of academic, scientific, or public research or
education.
      (3)   For the purposes of this definition, REQUEST means a written
document (or oral request, if the village chooses to honor oral requests) that
is submitted to the village via personal delivery, mail, telefax, electronic
mail, or other means available to the village and that identifies the
particular public record the requester seeks. One request may identify multiple
records to be inspected or copied.
   VOLUMINOUS REQUEST.
      (1)   (a)   A request that:
            1.   Includes more than five individual requests for more than five
different categories of records or a combination of individual requests that
total requests for more than five different categories of records in a period
of 20 business days; or
            2.   Requires the compilation of more than 500 letter or legal-
sized pages of public records unless a single requested record exceeds 500
pages.
         (b)   “Single requested record” may include, but is not limited to,
one report, form, e-mail, letter, memorandum, book, map, microfilm, tape, or
recording.
      (2)   VOLUMINOUS REQUEST does not include a request made by news media
and non-profit, scientific, or academic organizations if the principal purpose
of the request is:
         (a)   To access and disseminate information concerning news and
current or passing events;
         (b)   For articles of opinion or features of interest to the public;
or
         (c)   For the purpose of academic, scientific, or public research or
education.
      (3)   For the purposes of this definition, REQUEST means a written
document, or oral request, if the village chooses to honor oral requests, that
is submitted to the village via personal delivery, mail, telefax, electronic
mail, or other means available to the village and that identifies the
particular public record or records the requester seeks. One request may
identify multiple individual records to be inspected or copied.
(5 ILCS 140/2)
§ 34.02 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the public policy of the village that all persons
are entitled to full and complete information regarding the affairs of the
village. The official acts and policies of the public officials and public
employees of the village shall be consistent with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to compel the village to interpret or
advise requesters as to the meaning or significance of the public records.
(5 ILCS 140/3.3)
§ 34.03 INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY PROTECTED.
   This chapter is not intended to cause an unwarranted invasion of personal
privacy, nor to allow the requests of a commercial enterprise to unduly burden
public resources, or to disrupt the duly undertaken work of the village
independent of the fulfillment of any of the fore-mentioned rights of the
people to access to information.
(5 ILCS 140/1)
§ 34.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS
140/1 et seq.
§ 34.05 REQUESTS TO BE IN WRITING; ORAL REQUESTS.
   Requests for inspection or copies shall be made in writing and directed to
the village. Written requests may be submitted to the village via personal
delivery, mail, telefax, or other means available to the village. The village
may honor oral requests for inspection or copying. The village may not require
that a request be submitted on a standard form or require the requester to
specify the purpose for a request, except to determine whether the records are
requested for a commercial purpose or whether to grant a request for a fee
waiver. All requests for inspection and copying received by the village shall
immediately be forwarded to its Freedom of Information officer or designee.
(5 ILCS 140/3(c))
§ 34.06 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   When a person requests a copy of a record maintained in an
electronic format, the village shall furnish it in the electronic format
specified by the requester, if feasible. If it is not feasible to furnish the
public records in the specified electronic format, then the village shall
furnish it in the format in which it is maintained by the village, or in paper
format at the option of the requester. The village may charge the requester for
the actual cost of purchasing the recording medium, whether disc, diskette,
tape, or other medium. If a request is not a request for a commercial purpose
or a voluminous request, the village may not charge the requester for the costs
of any search for and review of the records or other personnel costs associated
with reproducing the records. Except to the extent that the General Assembly
expressly provides, statutory fees applicable to copies of public records when
furnished in a paper format shall not be applicable to those records when
furnished in an electronic format.
      (2)   (a)   If a voluminous request is for electronic records and those
records are not in a portable document format (PDF), the village may charge up
to $20 for not more than two megabytes of data, up to $40 for more than two but
not more than four megabytes of data, and up to $100 for more than four
megabytes of data. If a voluminous request is for electronic records and those
records are in a portable document format, the village may charge up to $20 for
not more than 80 megabytes of data, up to $40 for more than 80 megabytes but
not more than 160 megabytes of data, and up to $100 for more than 160 megabytes
of data. If the responsive electronic records are in both a portable document
format and not in a portable document format, the village may separate the fees
and charge the requester under both fee scales.
         (b)   If the village imposes a fee pursuant to this division (A)(2),
it must provide the requester with an accounting of all fees, costs, and
personnel hours in connection with the request for public records.
   (B)   Except when a fee is otherwise fixed by statute, the village may
charge fees reasonably calculated to reimburse its actual cost for reproducing
and certifying public records and for the use, by any person, of the equipment
of the village to copy records. No fees shall be charged for the first 50 pages
of black and white, letter or legal sized copies requested by a requester. The
fee for black and white, letter or legal sized copies shall not exceed $.15 per
page. If the village provides copies in color or in a size other than letter or
legal, the village may not charge more than its actual cost for reproducing the
records. In calculating its actual cost for reproducing records or for the use
of the equipment of the village to reproduce records, the village shall not
include the costs of any search for and review of the records or other
personnel costs associated with reproducing the records, except for commercial
requests as provided in division (F) below. Such fees shall be imposed
according to a standard scale of fees, established and made public by the body
imposing them. The cost for certifying a record shall not exceed $1.
   (C)   Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a reduced charge, as
determined by the village, if the person requesting the documents states the
specific purpose for the request and indicates that a waiver or reduction of
the fee is in the public interest. Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the
public interest if the principal purpose of the request is to access and
disseminate information regarding the health, safety and welfare or the legal
rights of the general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal
or commercial benefit. For purposes of this division (C), COMMERCIAL BENEFIT
shall not apply to requests made by news media when the principal purpose of
the request is to access and disseminate information regarding the health,
safety, and welfare or the legal rights of the general public. In setting the
amount of the waiver or reduction, the village may take into consideration the
amount of materials requested and the cost of copying them.
   (D)   The imposition of a fee not consistent with divisions (A) and (B)
above constitutes a denial of access to public records for the purposes of
judicial review.
   (E)   The fee for each abstract of a driver’s record shall be as provided in
§ 6-118 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-118), approved September 29,
1969, as amended, whether furnished as a paper copy or as an electronic copy.
   (F)   The village may charge up to $10 for each hour spent by personnel in
searching for and retrieving a requested record or examining the record for
necessary redactions. No fees shall be charged for the first 8 hours spent by
personnel in searching for or retrieving a requested record. The village may
charge the actual cost of retrieving and transporting public records from an
off-site storage facility when the public records are maintained by a third-
party storage company under contract with the village. If the village imposes a
fee pursuant to this division (F), it must provide the requester with an
accounting of all fees, costs, and personnel hours in connection with the
request for public records. The provisions of this division (F) apply only to
commercial requests.
(5 ILCS 140/6)
§ 34.07 TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH REQUEST.
   (A)   The village shall, promptly, either comply with or deny a request for
public records within five business days after its receipt of the request,
unless the time for response is properly extended under §
34.08. Denials shall be in writing and in accordance with §
34.11. Failure to comply with a written request, extend the time for response,
or deny a request within five business days after its receipt shall be
considered a denial of the request. A public body that fails to respond to a
request within the requisite periods in this section but thereafter provides
the requester with copies of the requested public records may not impose a fee
for those copies. A public body that fails to respond to a request received may
not treat the request as unduly burdensome under §
34.09.
(5 ILCS 140/3(d))
   (B)   The time periods for compliance or denial of a request to inspect or
copy records set out in 5 ILCS 140/3 shall not apply to requests for records
made for a commercial purpose, requests by a recurrent requester, or voluminous
requests. Such requests shall be subject to the provisions of 5 ILCS 140/3.1,
3.2 and 3.6.
(5 ILCS 140/3(i))
§ 34.08 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   The time for response under this chapter may be extended by the
village for not more than five business days from the original due date for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   The requested records are stored in whole or in part at other
locations than the office having charge of the requested records;
         (b)   The request requires the collection of a substantial number of
specified records;
         (c)   The request is couched in categorical terms and requires an
extensive search for the records responsive to it;
         (d)   The requested records have not been located in the course of
routine search and additional efforts are being made to locate them;
         (e)   The requested records require examination and evaluation by
personnel having the necessary competence and discretion to determine if they
are exempt from disclosure under § 7 of the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS
140/7) or should be revealed only with appropriate deletions;
         (f)   The request for records cannot be complied with by the village
within the time limits prescribed by §
34.05 without unduly burdening or interfering with the operations of the
village;
         (g)   There is a need for consultation, which shall be conducted with
all practicable speed, with another public body or among two or more components
of the a public body having a substantial interest in the determination or in
the subject matter of the request.
      (2)   The person making a request and the village may agree in writing to
extend the time for compliance for a period to be determined by the parties. If
the requester and the village agree to extend the period for compliance, a
failure by the village to comply with any previous deadlines shall not be
treated as a denial of the request for the records.
(5 ILCS 140/3(e))
   (B)   When additional time is required for any of the above reasons, the
President shall, within five business days after receipt of the request, notify
the person making the request of the reasons for the extension and the date by
which the response will be forthcoming. Failure to respond within the time
permitted for extension shall be considered a denial of the request. A public
body that fails to respond to a request within the time permitted for extension
but thereafter provides the requester with copies of the requested public
records may not impose a fee for those copies. A public body that requests an
extension and subsequently fails to respond to the request may not treat the
request as unduly burdensome under §
34.09.
(5 ILCS 140/3(f))
§ 34.09 UNDULY BURDENSOME REQUESTS.
   (A)   Requests calling for all records falling within a category shall be
complied with unless compliance with the request would be unduly burdensome for
the village, there is no way to narrow the request, and the burden on the
village outweighs the public interest in the information. Before invoking this
exemption, the village shall extend to the person making the request an
opportunity to confer with it in an attempt to reduce the request to manageable
proportions. If the village responds to a categorical request by stating that
compliance would unduly burden its operation and the conditions described above
are met, it shall do so in writing, specifying the reasons why it would be
unduly burdensome and the extent to which compliance will so burden the
operations of the village. Such a response shall be treated as a denial of the
request for information.
   (B)   Repeated requests from the same person for the same records that are
unchanged or identical to records previously provided or properly denied under
this chapter shall be deemed unduly burdensome under this provision.
(5 ILCS 140/3(g))
§ 34.10 CERTAIN INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM INSPECTION AND COPYING.
   Information exempted by § 7 of the Illinois Freedom of Information Act (5
ILCS 140/7) shall be exempt from inspection and copying. The President and
Clerk shall keep available for use by the public and village personnel a
current copy of § 7 of the Freedom of Information Act.
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions from inspection and copying, see 5 ILCS 140/7
   Statutory exemptions from inspection and copying, see 5 ILCS 140/7.5
§ 34.11 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF REQUEST.
   (A)   Each public body denying a request for public records shall notify the
requester in writing of the decision to deny the request, the reasons for the
denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application of any exemption
claimed, and the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for
the denial. Each notice of denial by a public body shall also inform the person
of the right to review by the Public Access Counselor and provide the address
and phone number for the Public Access Counselor. Each notice of denial shall
inform the person of his or her right to judicial review under 5 ILCS 140/11.
   (B)   When a request for public records is denied on the grounds that the
records are exempt under 5 ILCS 140/7, the notice of denial shall specify the
exemption claimed to authorize the denial and the specific reasons for the
denial, including a detailed factual basis and a citation to supporting legal
authority. Copies of all notices of denial shall be retained by each public
body in a single central office file that is open to the public and indexed
according to the type of exemption asserted and, to the extent feasible,
according to the types of records requested.
   (C)   Any person making a request for public records shall be deemed to have
exhausted his or her administrative remedies with respect to that request if
the village fails to act within the time periods provided in 5 ILCS 140/3.
(5 ILCS 140/9)
Statutory reference:
   Public Access Counselor, see 5 ILCS 140/9.5
§ 34.12 GRANTING OF REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION.
   When a freedom of information request is granted, the documents will be made
available for inspection at the Village Hall during regular business hours.
Copies shall be made upon request as set forth in §
34.06.
§ 34.13 WRITTEN REQUEST NOT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
   The following documents shall be made available for inspection and copying
without a written request and, if copied, upon payment of the copying fee set
forth in §
34.06, as follows: ordinances; the journal of the Board of Trustees, not
including executive session minutes; any personnel code, building code, other
technical code, or any other regulation of the village adopted by the village,
whether by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise.
§ 34.14 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ABOUT PUBLIC BODIES.
   (A)   The village shall prominently display at the Village Hall, make
available for inspection and copying, and send through the mail if requested,
each of the following:
      (1)   A brief description of itself, which will include but not be
limited to a short summary of its purpose, a block diagram giving its
functional subdivisions, the total amount of its operating budget, the number
and location of all of its separate offices, the approximate number of full-
and part-time employees, and the identification and membership of any board,
commission, committee, or council which operates in an advisory capacity
relative to the operation of the public body, or which exercises control over
its policies or procedures, or to which the public body is required to report
and be answerable for its operations; and
      (2)   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating the Freedom of
Information officer or officers, the address where requests for public records
should be directed, and any fees allowable under §
34.06.
   (B)   A public body that maintains a website shall also post this
information on its website.
(5 ILCS 140/4)
§ 34.15 REQUESTS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   The village shall respond to a request for records to be used for a
commercial purpose within 21 working days after receipt. The response shall:
      (1)   Provide to the requester an estimate of the time required by the
village to provide the records requested and an estimate of the fees to be
charged, which the village may require the person to pay in full before copying
the requested documents;
      (2)   Deny the request pursuant to one or more of the exemptions set out
in 5 ILCS 140;
      (3)   Notify the requester that the request is unduly burdensome and
extend an opportunity to the requester to attempt to reduce the request to
manageable proportions; or
      (4)   Provide the records requested.
   (B)   Unless the records are exempt from disclosure, the village shall
comply with a request within a reasonable period considering the size and
complexity of the request, and giving priority to records requested for
noncommercial purposes.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly obtain a
public record for a commercial purpose without disclosing that it is for a
commercial purpose, if requested to do so by the village.
(5 ILCS 140/3.1)
§ 34.16 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICERS.
   (A)   The village shall designate one or more officials or employees to act
as its Freedom of Information officer or officers. Except in instances when
records are furnished immediately, Freedom of Information officers, or their
designees, shall receive requests submitted to the village under this chapter,
ensure that the village responds to requests in a timely fashion, and issue
responses under this chapter. Freedom of Information officers shall develop a
list of documents or categories of records that the village shall immediately
disclose upon request.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the Freedom of
Information officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the village receives the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   (C)   All Freedom of Information officers shall, within six months after the
effective date of the amendatory Act of the 96th General Assembly, successfully
complete an electronic training curriculum to be developed by the Public Access
Counselor and thereafter successfully complete an annual training program.
Thereafter, whenever a new Freedom of Information officer is designated by the
village, that person shall successfully complete the electronic training
curriculum within 30 days after assuming the position. Successful completion of
the required training curriculum within the periods provided shall be a
prerequisite to continue serving as a Freedom of Information officer.
(5 ILCS 140/3.5)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Declaration of civil emergency
   
35.03   Curfew
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. Shall be interpreted to mean and include the following:
      (1)   A riot, or any unlawful assembly or gathering of three or more
persons, characterized by the use of force or violence upon persons or
property, or threatened or obvious intended use of force or violence upon
persons or property accompanied by immediate power to execute, acting together
or in conjunction with each other, without authority of law, which has or could
result in injury to persons or property, or jeopardize the public peace,
safety, and welfare.
      (2)   Any natural disaster, or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, explosion or bombing, within the
corporate limits of the village or within the area adjacent to the village,
resulting in the death or injury of persons or in the damage or destruction of
property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken for the
protection and preservation of the public peace, safety, and welfare within the
village.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons standing, sitting,
lying, loitering, walking, running, or being within or upon any vehicle, or in
or upon any alley, street, highway, public property, or vacant premises in any
geographical area within the corporate limits of the village, except persons
officially designated to duty with reference to a civil emergency.
§ 35.02 DECLARATION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY.
   When, in the judgment of the President and the Chief of Police of the
village, a civil emergency as defined herein is deemed to exist in the village,
the President shall forthwith proclaim, in writing, the existence of a civil
emergency in the village. Public notice of this declaration shall be given
immediately by all available means as directed by the President.
§ 35.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   After the proclamation by the President of the existence of a civil
emergency in the village, the President is hereby authorized to establish, by
order, a curfew as herein defined, applicable to such geographical areas of the
village, or to the village as a whole, if the President deems it advisable, and
which shall remain in force and effect during those hours of each day or night
as the President deems necessary for the protection and preservation of the
public peace, safety and welfare.
   (B)   After proclamation by the President of the existence of a civil
emergency, the President is hereby also authorized, for the purpose of the
protection and preservation of the public peace, safety, and welfare, to make
any one or all of the following orders effective within the village during the
period of the curfew:
      (1)   Closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Prohibiting the sale, serving, or giving away of any intoxicating
liquor in or by any store, restaurant, private club, or other establishment
having an alcoholic liquor license issued by the village; and/or
      (4)   Prohibiting or limiting in any manner the selling or giving away of
firearms, ammunition, explosives, gasoline, and other flammable liquids or
chemicals.
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of any curfew
or any other order issued by the President under the provisions of §
35.03, or to fail to obey promptly any reasonable order, direction, or command
issued by any police officer acting in the performance of his or her duty or
power in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter for the preservation
of the public peace, health, and safety. Any person guilty of such violation
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor
more than $750 for each offense.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER USE
      
51.   UTILITY SERVICES REGULATIONS
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics.
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Connection to sewer system required
   
50.03   Private sewage disposal systems
   
50.04   Building sewers
   
50.05   Street excavations
   
50.06   Discharge of sewage, polluted waters
   
50.07   Privies, septic tanks prohibited
   
50.08   Stormwater discharges
   
50.09   Prohibited discharges
   
50.10   Harmful wastes
   
50.11   Declaration of nuisance; remedies
   
50.12   Required treatment and control facilities
   
50.13   Tests, analyses of wastes
   
50.14   Special agreements
   
50.15   Wastewater service outside village limits
   
50.16   Damaging sewerage works
   
50.17   Right of entry; inspection
   
50.18   Nonliability for damages
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or B.O.D. The quantity of oxygen utilized in
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial,
or business establishment or process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing .17 pounds of B.O.D. or .22 pounds of
suspended solids.
   P.P.M. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the sewerage works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sewers, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with village
funds.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which stormwaters, surface waters, and
groundwaters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including stormwater, surface water, and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, pumping, and treatment of wastewater and discharge of effluent.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water, and groundwater
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, it may be
a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. Synonymous with SEWERAGE WORKS.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
§ 50.02 CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley, easement, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the
village are hereby required, each at his or her expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
90 days after date of official notice to do so.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Connection to private disposal system. Where a public sanitary sewer
is not available, and a variance from the construction of a sanitary sewer has
been granted by the Board of Trustees, the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit required; fee. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Board of Trustees. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the Superintendent, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the village
at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   Inspection of work. A permit for a private sewage disposal system
shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
   (D)   Compliance with state regulations. The type, capacities, location, and
layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq. and with 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and
the ordinances of the county. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   Abandonment of private system. At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system as provided
in §
50.02, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   Sanitary maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense
to the village.
   (G)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this chapter shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the county in which the system is to be constructed.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Classes of permits; application; fees. There shall be two classes of
building sewer permits: one for residential and commercial service, and one for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his or her agent shall make application on a form furnished by the
village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Utility Superintendent. Connection and inspection fees as established by
Title XVII of this code shall be paid to the village at the time the
application is filed. All nonresidential applicants shall, as a condition of
permit authorization, provide information describing its wastewater
constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
   (B)   Condition for issuance. A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (C)   Costs borne by owner. All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate sewer for each building. A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building.
   (E)   Old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
village, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Construction specifications. The size, slope, alignment, and materials
of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village. In the absence of code
provisions or in application thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, 1973 edition,
shall apply, three copies of each being on file in the office of the Village
Clerk, and which are hereby adopted by reference.
   (G)   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with this chapter, and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (H)   Roof downspouts prohibited. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   Connection to public sewer. The connection of the building sewer into
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes, other applicable rules and regulations of the village, and the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9,
and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
All these connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
   (J)   Inspection. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the village when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
village or its representative.
   (K)   Excavations. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate, or cause to be dug or excavated within,
through, or under any street, alley, sidewalk, or public highways within the
village for any purpose under this chapter, without first obtaining a permit in
accordance with
Chapter 97 of this code.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE, POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any that are under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 STORMWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Stormwater discharged to sanitary sewer prohibited. No person shall
discharge or allow to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Stormwater and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the village.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the village, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (B)   Stormwater system. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or
cause to be connected with the stormwater drain system of the village any drain
carrying or designed to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank,
cesspool, industrial waste, or any fixture or other device discharging
polluting substances, or to cause or permit to be discharged into the
stormwater system of the village any sanitary sewage, industrial waste, or any
other polluting substance.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or allow to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewerage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage works, such as but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, or milk containers, either whole or
ground by garbage grinders.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 HARMFUL WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or allow to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if the Utility
Superintendent, after consultation with the Village Engineer, shall determine
that the wastes are harmful to either the sewers, wastewater treatment process,
or equipment of the sewerage works; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In making the determination as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Superintendent shall give consideration to such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials
of construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment process,
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in
the wastewater treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory
agencies. Any such determination may be appealed to the Board of Trustees by
any person affected by that determination. The decision of the Board on an
appeal shall be final.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F. (65
C.°).
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° F.
(0° and 65° C.).
      (3)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this chapter, which are in violation of the
standards for pretreatment set forth in the General Pretreatment Regulations
for Existing and New Sources of Pollution, 40 C.F.R. § 403, and any amendments
thereto, or in violation of any federal or state standards for pretreatment,
and which may have a deleterious effect upon the sewerage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village and shall be subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
§ 50.12 REQUIRED TREATMENT AND CONTROL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Grease, oil and/or sand interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand
interceptors shall be provided when they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that these interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the village and shall
be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (B)   Preliminary treatment facilities. Where preliminary treatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (C)   Control manhole. Each industry shall be required to install a control
manhole and, when required by the village, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with any necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 TESTS, ANALYSES OF WASTES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of
laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the
village, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with the federal, state, and local standards is being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the village
at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall
bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the
village. At those times as deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH is determined from periodic
grab samples.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern, provided the payments are in accordance with federal and state
guidelines for user charge systems and industrial cost recovery systems.
§ 50.15 WASTEWATER SERVICE OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Existing buildings with private wastewater disposal systems, either
separate or part of a subdivision.
      (1)   Where requested by the property owners, the village may, in its
discretion, permit connections of existing houses or other structures on a
contractual basis. The construction of house service lines, connections,
wastewater collection systems for subdivisions, and extensions needed to reach
the village’s lines will be at the expense of the individual properties to be
served. Annexation may be required by the village as a condition of service,
dependent upon location of the property, its need for village service, and the
ability of the village to provide the service. Extension approval shall be by
the adoption of an ordinance which will approve a utility agreement with the
village.
      (2)   The utility agreement with the village shall provide that all
construction of service lines, connections, and wastewater collection systems
shall be in accordance with ordinances of the village and shall further be
subject to all fees and charges provided by ordinance unless the same shall
have been waived by the village under a prior written agreement with the
village.
   (B)   New buildings, either separate or part of a new subdivision.
      (1)   This division (B) covers sanitary sewer service connections
requested for individual buildings which are constructed after the effective
date of this policy or structures which are a part of a subdivision which is
planned subsequent to the adoption of this section. Service may, at the
discretion of the Board of Trustees, be provided on a contractual basis after
written request for service subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The owner must agree to annex immediately to the village if the
property to be served is contiguous to the village limits, or if not
contiguous, to annex to the village upon becoming contiguous.
         (b)   The owner must agree to conform to village building codes,
subdivision control requirements, and sewer use ordinances in those cases where
village requirements are more stringent than those of the county, as a
condition of any annexation agreement, and shall also agree to pay the normal
village fees and charges for the enforcement of same.
      (2)   The above requirements shall also be provided for in a contractual
agreement and shall be binding upon future as well as present owners.
   (C)   Connection fees, tap-on charges, service charges, and inspections.
Current fee and charge schedules are provided by ordinance. The connection fee
is intended to cover the investment which must be made by the water and
wastewater utility, or which has previously been made by the utility, for
providing basic supply, treatment, collection, transmission, and/or
distribution needs. The tap-on charge is intended to recover the out-of-pocket
expense involved in making the actual service connections. These charges are
subject to review from time to time based on changing costs. Service charges
are the periodic charges currently rendered quarterly, which cover operation
and maintenance costs and other capital investment costs not covered by the
connection fee, including but not limited to bond financing and reserve fund
requirements.
§ 50.16 DAMAGING SEWERAGE WORKS.
   No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a
part of the sewerage works.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION.
   The Utility Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Utility Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
§ 50.18 NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
50.17, the Utility Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company. The company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village
employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by village employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
this chapter.
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, unless otherwise
provided, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $750 for each offense,
and every day that the violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties set forth in division (A), any person who
shall damage any portion or component of the sewerage works of the village by
violating any provision of this chapter, or otherwise, shall be civilly liable
to the village for the damage.
CHAPTER 51: UTILITY SERVICES REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Monthly charges
   
51.02   Rates
   
51.03   Terms of payment
   
51.04   Deposit
   
51.05   Unpaid charges as lien
   
51.06   Water meters
   
51.07   Use of water from fire hydrants
   
51.08   Water and sewer connection permits
Discontinuance of Utility Service
   
51.25   Notice of termination
   
51.26   Customer complaints
   
51.27   Informal hearing
   
51.28   Credit extension
   
51.29   Reinstatement of service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 MONTHLY CHARGES.
   The monthly utility charges established by this code shall be applicable to
all consumers of the village utility services.
§ 51.02 RATES.
   Rates for utility services shall be as set forth in Title XVII of this code.
Connection and disconnection charges are also set forth in Title XVII of this
code.
§ 51.03 TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   The net amount billed for utility services is due and payable within a
period of 15 days as shown on the bill. If the net amount is not paid on or
before the due date shown on the bill, the gross amount, which is 3% more than
the net amount, is due and payable. The net amount of the bill will be accepted
in full payment after the expiration of the next payment period for one billing
period in each calendar year.
   (B)   The charges and discounts established in this code shall be prorated
by the village for customers receiving service for less than a full billing
period.
§ 51.04 DEPOSIT.
   The village shall have the right at any time to require the customer to
provide a credit reference or make a reasonable deposit in advance of service
as set forth in Title XVII of this code, or to require a deposit or an increase
in an existing deposit if an account is delinquent or paid with a bad check.
§ 51.05 UNPAID CHARGES AS LIEN.
   (A)   Lien claim; procedure. Charges for water shall be a lien upon the
premises as provided by statute. Whenever a bill for water service remains
unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the
County Recorder a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all
charges for water served subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      (1)   If the consumer of water whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of
the premises, and the Village Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the
Village Clerk, whenever the bill remains unpaid for a period of 60 days after
it has been rendered.
      (2)   The failure of the Village Clerk to record the lien claim or to
mail the notice, or the failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as set forth in
the following division.
   (B)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water charges shall be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
pay the charges, after deducting costs and attorney’s fees. The foreclosure
shall be by bill in equity in the name of the village.
      (2)   The Village Attorney shall institute proceedings in the name of the
village, in any court having jurisdiction over these matters, against any
property for which the water bill has remained unpaid 60 days after it has been
rendered, upon a resolution of the Board of Trustees directing same.
§ 51.06 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Meters required. Before any premises to be served by village water are
occupied, a water meter shall be installed therein by the village upon payment
by the customer of the cost of installing same.
   (B)   Testing meters. The village water meter shall be taken out and tested
upon complaint of the consumer and payment of a fee of $5. If upon test the
meter is not within 3% of being accurate, it shall be repaired or replaced and
the $5 fee returned to the customer.
§ 51.07 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Use of water from fire hydrants except as specifically authorized by the
Utility Superintendent is not allowed. Except for firefighting and flow
testing, all fire hydrant usage will be measured with a portable water meter
affixed to a designated fire hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 51.08 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   No service connection with the water system, sanitary sewage system,
or other utility systems of the village shall be made without a permit therefor
being first obtained as hereinafter provided. Application for the permit shall
be made and filed with the Utility Superintendent, on forms provided by the
Superintendent. The permits shall be issued by the Superintendent only after
payment of the charges for these connections, respectively, as set forth in
Title XVII of this code.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall keep in his or her office a complete record
of all such permits issued hereunder and the exact location of the connections
made. He or she shall furnish to the Board of Trustees, as often as requested,
a complete statement of all these permits issued since his or her last
statement.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall require the applicant to furnish, in
connection with the application for service connections, the plans of the
building to be served and any other information that he or she may require for
the purpose of determining the amount of charges for the connections in
accordance with the schedule of charges in Title XVII of this code.
   (D)   The permit shall be issued for a 90-day period.
   (E)   In the case of any application for a water service connection permit
or a sanitary sewage service connection permit to which the application of the
charges set forth in Title XVII of this code are not definitely applicable, the
Board of Trustees shall determine the charges to be made in the particular
situation.
DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITY SERVICE
§ 51.25 NOTICE OF TERMINATION.
   (A)   If the rates and charges for utility service, including all penalties,
are not paid within 15 days after the due date of the current bill or, if the
customer has been found in violation of any of the rules and regulations of any
utility provided for in this code, the village may discontinue the service
after mailing a seven-day written notice to the user or consumer of the
service, by certified mail, return receipt requested; by personal delivery; or
by posting on the premises to be disconnected, of the village’s intention to
discontinue service. If the user or consumer is not the owner of the premises
served, the seven-day written notice shall also be mailed by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the owner of the premises if his or her name and
address is known. The notice shall clearly state the number of days the account
is in arrears and the balance due including any penalty charges or the rule or
regulation which is alleged to have been violated, whichever is applicable; the
name, title, address, and phone number of the person to contact for an informal
resolution of the customer’s complaints in cases of disputes concerning the
amount due or other problems with the account; the address and office hours of
the utility office in case the customer wants to informally resolve his or her
complaint in person; and the fact that the customer is entitled to a hearing on
his or her complaint before some authorized agent of the appropriate utility
department when and if the complaint cannot be informally resolved.
   (B)   The village shall also have the right to disconnect or refuse service
from any and all village utilities to any customer or user with one or more
installations if the bills for all village utilities are not paid at any one
installation, subject of course to the notice and procedural provisions
required by this subchapter.
§ 51.26 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   If a customer or user calls, visits, or writes the authorized
representative mentioned in the notice, complaining of an overcharge or other
problems with the account, the authorized representative shall do one or more
of the following:
      (1)   Stay termination of service until the authorized representative
renders a decision or all appeals are exhausted, whichever is later; provided,
however, that the authorized representative shall render a decision within ten
days for the date the customer or user called in his or her complaint or made
his or her complaint in person, or from the date of receipt of a customer’s or
user’s written complaint;
      (2)   Conduct an investigation including but not limited to a meter check
in the subject premises, check utility billings for possible errors in
computation of the bill, and check for leaks or illegal connections;
      (3)   Establish a written credit plan, as permitted by this subchapter,
in cases of claimed financial difficulties; or
      (4)   If the authorized representative finds merit to the dispute, he or
she can make an adjustment of the bill with the customer or user with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   If the authorized representative finds that the dispute as to an
overcharge or other problem with the account has no merit, he or she shall
communicate this decision to the customer or user by certified mail, return
receipt requested, by personal delivery, or by posting on the premises to be
disconnected. The notice of the decision shall specify that if the account is
not paid or the customer or user does not appeal the decision on or before five
days from the date of receipt of the notice, the utility service shall be
discontinued.
§ 51.27 INFORMAL HEARING.
   (A)   Any customer or user may request a hearing before the head of the
appropriate utility department or other properly authorized personnel in the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Within seven days from the date of receipt of any notice of
termination of service. If the customer or user is charged with a violation of
the rules of the utility other than a dispute on the charges or other problems
with the account, the customer or user may only request a hearing as provided
herein. The informal procedure described in §
51.26 is not available to any customer or user who is charged with other
violations of the utility’s rules and regulations; and
      (2)   Within five days after receipt of the notice of decision by the
authorized representative under the informal procedure set forth in §
51.26.
   (B)   The hearing date shall be scheduled during regular village business
hours and for a date convenient to the parties but no later than ten days from
the date of the request. The hearing date and time shall be confirmed by the
village in writing to the person requesting the hearing by first-class U.S.
mail. At this hearing the customer or user shall have the right to be
represented by counsel, to appear at the hearing in person, to present evidence
on his or her own behalf, and to examine any evidence which the village utility
might introduce. The village utility is authorized to conduct its own
investigation of the customer’s or user’s complaint and to present any evidence
to that effect at the hearing. Within five days after the conclusion of any
hearing, the authorized person conducting the hearing will render a decision on
the basis of the evidence presented. This decision shall be communicated to the
customer or user by certified mail, return receipt requested, by personal
delivery, or by posting on the premises to be disconnected. In case the
decision is against the customer or user, the notice of the decision shall
specify that if the account is not paid, or the violation is not abated, on or
before five days from date of receipt of notice, the utility service shall be
discontinued.
§ 51.28 CREDIT EXTENSION.
   (A)   When a customer’s or user’s utility bills are in arrears because of
claimed financial difficulties, the customer or user has not defaulted on a
previous credit extension, a 90-day credit extension shall be given to the
customer or user, upon request to the authorized representative, whereby the
customer or user shall pay his or her monthly bill on the basis of the
following deferred payment schedule:
      (1)   First payment at end of 30 days: one-third of the bill in arrears
plus monthly current charges;
      (2)   Second payment at end of 60 days: one-third of the remaining two-
thirds of the bill in arrears plus current charges; and
      (3)   Third payment at end of 90 days: last one-third due on the bill in
arrears plus monthly current charges.
   (B)   If a customer or user, however, defaults on this agreed-upon deferred
payment schedule, all service bills in arrears shall be immediately due and
payable and no further credit extensions shall be granted that customer or
user. A new written notice as specified above in this subchapter shall be sent
to the customer or user stating the new service termination date.
§ 51.29 REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.
   If service is discontinued because of nonpayment of utility bills or because
of violation of utility rules and regulations, the services shall not be
restored until all charges, costs, and damages, if any, have been paid to the
village or the violation has been corrected, and until the costs incurred in
calling out personnel are paid according to the fees set forth in Title XVII of
this code.
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Illinois Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
52.02   Notice given when backflow prevention device required; device to be
installed and tested in approved manner
   
52.03   Connections to be approved
   
52.04   Surveys required; records to be maintained
   
52.05   Cross-connection control device inspector
   
52.06   Right of entry; right to requested information
   
52.07   Discontinuation of service; restoration of service
   
52.08   Violators to bear clean-up costs
Cross-Connection Device Regulations
   
52.15   Purpose
   
52.16   Application
   
52.17   Policy
   
52.18   Definitions
   
52.19   Components of water system defined
   
52.20   Cross-connection prohibited
   
52.21   Right of entry of inspector; consumer to furnish information
   
52.22   Water consumer to arrange surveys and to prevent backflow
   
52.23   Testing; records
   
52.24   Where protection required
   
52.25   Type of protection required
   
52.26   Backflow prevention devices to be of approved design and installation
   
52.27   Inspection; maintenance
   
52.28   Booster pumps
   
52.29   Discontinuance of service; restoration of service
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All plumbing henceforth installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890, which is
hereby adopted by reference. The Village Clerk shall keep three copies of the
Code of file and available for public use, inspection, and examination.
§ 52.02 NOTICE GIVEN WHEN BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE REQUIRED; DEVICE TO BE
INSTALLED AND TESTED IN APPROVED MANNER.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent
of Water shall give notice to the water customer to install such an approved
device immediately.
   (B)   Any water customer required to install an approved backflow prevention
device under division (A) above shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of these approved devices upon installation and as
required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and local regulations.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 CONNECTIONS TO BE APPROVED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established,
or maintain or permit to be maintained, any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the village may enter the supply or distribution system of the village,
unless the private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent
of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
§ 52.04 SURVEYS REQUIRED; RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   The Superintendent of Water shall cause surveys and investigations to be
made of industrial and other properties served by the public water supply to
determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may
exist. These surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record
and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as the
Superintendent of Water deems necessary. Records of the surveys shall be
maintained and available for review for a period of at least five years.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR.
   The Village Water Department shall hire a cross-connection control device
inspector or shall train an existing employee to perform this function.
§ 52.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY; RIGHT TO REQUESTED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Right of entry.
      (1)   The cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections.
      (2)   The Water Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have
the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the
purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the
required cross-connection control inspection.
   (B)   Right to requested information.
      (1)   On demand the owner, lessee, or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or she
may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on the
property.
      (2)   The refusal of this information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as prohibited by this chapter.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Discontinuation of service. The Village Superintendent of Water is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupant thereof, except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provision of
this chapter is known to exist, and to take any other precautionary measures as
he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains.
      (1)   Oral notice of discontinuation. The Superintendent of Water may
disconnect a customer on oral notice if there is, in the Superintendent’s
opinion, an imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply
system. This action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection.
      (2)   Discontinuation without notice. There may be immediate
disconnection without notice to any party to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the State Environmental
Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
      (3)   Village not liable for losses due to discontinuation. Neither the
public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which
may result from termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not the termination was with or without
notice.
   (B)   Restoration of service. Water service to any property whose water
service has been discontinued as provided by division (A) above shall not be
restored until the conditions which caused the discontinuation have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and
until a reconnection fee of $50 is paid to the village.
§ 52.08 VIOLATORS TO BEAR CLEAN-UP COSTS.
   Any consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply.
CROSS-CONNECTION DEVICE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
§ 52.16 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the village.
§ 52.17 POLICY.
   (A)   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of
the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-
siphonage of contaminants through the consumer’s water service connection.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his or her
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
shall give notice to the consumer to install the approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install the approved device or devices at his or her own expense;
failure, refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to install the
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until the device or devices have been installed.
   (C)   The consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance,
testing, and repair as required in §
52.23 for a period of at least five years.
§ 52.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute, or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
surveyor’s public water supply system; water from a source such as wells,
lakes, streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted,
contaminated, objectionable, or constitute a water source or system over which
the water surveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into another.
      DIRECT. A cross-connection formed when a water system is physically
joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      INDIRECT. A cross-connection through which an unknown substance can be
forced, drawn by vacuum, or otherwise introduced into a safe potable water
system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing whether each check valve is watertight.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word SEVERE as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances, and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water that does not meet public health standards for
drinking water and is not suitable for human consumption or culinary use. Any
water of unknown quality is considered nonpotable.
(77 Ill. Admin. Code 890.120)
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of private
water supply on the premises or from the main in the street or alley or at the
curb to, within, and about any building where persons live, work, or assemble.
PLUMBING includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to and including
pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a sanitary drainage and
related ventilation system of any building or buildings where persons live,
work, or assemble from the point of connection of the building drain to the
building sewer or private sewage disposal system five feet beyond the
foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for human consumption in accordance
with the Drinking Water Systems Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 900.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically,
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes but is not limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used water originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 50 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
community water supply or a noncommunity water supply.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valve at less than the supply pressure.
The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the
device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system. The SURVEY must include the location, type, and most recent inspection
and testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located
within that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and
should not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
§ 52.19 COMPONENTS OF WATER SYSTEM DEFINED.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts, the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
§ 52.20 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF INSPECTOR; CONSUMER TO FURNISH INFORMATION.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises and for
testing, repair, and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s premises
shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water for the
verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the public
water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
§ 52.22 WATER CONSUMER TO ARRANGE SURVEYS AND TO PREVENT BACKFLOW.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
private or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or
other plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3
(1).
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions; and
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector. The inspection of mechanical devices
shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.
§ 52.23 TESTING; RECORDS.
   (A)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at least
annually, or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
   (B)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test, name of the cross- connection control device inspector, and type and date
of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
      (1)   Date of each test;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
§ 52.24 WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections made after the effective date of these regulations to the public
water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890, and
the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Admin. Code 680. In addition, an approved
backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to a
consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources of systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and the cross-connection control device inspector,
are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Ill. Admin. Code 890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Admin. Code 653. In
addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving but not necessarily limited
to the following types of facilities, unless the Superintendent of Water
determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system
exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, or nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, or waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or stormwater
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, herbicide, or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
§ 52.25 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
52.24(B)(1) through (3) above shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists
as follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard;
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard; or
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause a
pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
52.24(B)(4) above shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to
the fire safety system.
§ 52.26 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES TO BE OF APPROVED DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with 35
Ill. Admin. Code 653.802, and only as specified by the Research Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern California or applicable
industry specifications. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of the
device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be available
on-site.
§ 52.27 INSPECTION; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspections, tests, maintenance, and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
shall be performed within 15 days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
§ 52.28 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, the pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
§ 52.29 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water; if it is found that the backflow prevention device has
been removed or bypassed; if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises; or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated the conditions or defects in conformance with these
regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be fined not more
than $250.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways.
(70 ILCS 1205/3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county, or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under § 5-1127 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1127); ambulances; vehicles of
the Illinois Department of Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois Department of
Juvenile Justice; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency;
vehicles of the Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and
explosives emergency response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources;
vehicles of the Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of the Illinois
State Toll Highway Authority with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds
or more and those identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the
Illinois Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol;
and vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency,
as defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(625 ILCS 5/1-105)
   AUTOCYCLE. A three-wheel motor vehicle that has a steering wheel and seating
that does not require the operator to straddle or sit astride it.
(625 ILCS 5/1-104.2)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
(625 ILCS 5/1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
(625 ILCS 5/1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
(625 ILCS 5/1-113)
   DEPARTMENT. Except as otherwise designated, the Department of Transportation
of the State of Illinois.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per
hour or less.
(625 ILCS 5/1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120)
   FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle, or electric personal
assistive mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local
authorities for Fire Department use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120.7)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(625 ILCS 5/1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder.
(625 ILCS 5/1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(625 ILCS 5/1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(625 ILCS 5/1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(625 ILCS 5/1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(625 ILCS 5/1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village, and other local board or
body having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution
and laws of this state and each road district Highway Commissioner having that
authority.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140)
   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
      (1)   A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor
of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one of the following
classes:
         (a)   “Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed
of 20 miles per hour;
         (b)   “Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric
bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the
bicycle and that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle
reaches a speed of 20 miles per hour; and
         (c)   “Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle” means a low-speed electric
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed
of 28 miles per hour.
      (2)   A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor driven
cycle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.10)
   A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor driven cycle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.10)
   LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE. A two- or three-wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower, whose maximum speed on
a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an
operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 miles per hour.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.15)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(625 ILCS 5/1-141)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. For this
section, motor vehicles are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons.
      (2)   Second division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the second division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
(625 ILCS 5/1-147)
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20
m.p.h. but not greater than 30 m.p.h., and is equipped with a motor that
produces two brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is
used, the displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and
the power drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight miles per hour on level ground.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3)
   MULTIFUNCTION SCHOOL ACTIVITY BUS. A school bus manufactured for the purpose
of transporting 11 or more persons, including the driver, whose purposes do not
include transporting students to and from home or school bus stops. A MFSAB is
prohibited from meeting the special requirements for school buses in 625 ILCS
5/12-801, 12-803, and 12-805, and 12-802(a).
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(625 ILCS 5/1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157)
   PEACE OFFICER.  Any person who by virtue of his or her public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157.5)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
(625 ILCS 5/1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, or by a licensed advanced
practice registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her
forced (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter, or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological, or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(625 ILCS 5/1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE.  Any vehicle, recreational off-highway vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle, watercraft, aircraft, bicycle, or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by proper state, county, or local
authorities for police use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his or her
principal business, or where he or she makes up and approves his or her
payroll, maintains a central file of records, and maintains his or her
principal executive offices. In the event that not all of these functions are
performed in one place, then that place where a majority of these functions are
performed, or the place where the person does in fact principally transact and
control his or her business affairs shall be considered as the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BUSINESS.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws governing
same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the
approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 C.F.R. pt.
214.7.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(625 ILCS 5/1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(625 ILCS 5/1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates and registration stickers issued under the laws of this state pertaining
to the registration of vehicles. REGISTRATION includes digital registration
plates and digital registration stickers issued by the Secretary of State under
625 ILCS 5/3-401.5.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device or devices to be attached to a rear
registration plate that will renew the registration and registration plate or
plates for a predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year except
as provided in 625 ILCS 5/3-414(1). Should the Secretary of State determine it
is advisable to require a registration sticker to be attached to a front
registration place, he or she may require such action and provide the necessary
additional sticker. Such determination shall be publicly announced at least 30
days in advance of a new annual registration year. REGISTRATION STICKER OR
STICKERS includes digital registration plates and digital registration stickers
issued by the Secretary of State under 625 ILCS 5/3-401.5.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.  
      (1)   The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising
a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance of 300
feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
      (2)   For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a RESIDENCE
DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with residences or
residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than 500 feet
apart.
(625 ILCS 5/1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(625 ILCS 5/1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
Secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(625 ILCS 5/1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all the roadways collectively.
(625 ILCS 5/1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(625 ILCS 5/1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation, or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division; or
         (c)   A multi-function school-activity bus.
(625 ILCS 5/1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(625 ILCS 5/1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(625 ILCS 5/1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(625 ILCS 5/1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(625 ILCS 5/1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(625 ILCS 5/1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(625 ILCS 5/1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline, or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul.
(625 ILCS 5/1-212)
   UNIFORM INVOICE. A form created by the Secretary for the purpose of
transporting vehicles and essential parts that does not convey or transfer
ownership rights of a vehicle from one entity to another.
(625 ILCS 5/1-213.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-quarter
mile or more.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214.8)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power, devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as defined in the
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40).
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo; and those
motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of
the second division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-217)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, person authorized by the village
to direct traffic, or school crossing guard invested by law with authority to
direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, this state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from work.
(625 ILCS 5/11-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(625 ILCS 5/11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or
refuses to obey that direction, increases his or her speed, extinguishes his or
her lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal
given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue
light. However, the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and,
if driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with
this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code and
purports to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such device, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign. This provision does not apply to the driver of a vehicle approaching
a pedestrian hybrid beacon.
(625 ILCS 5/11-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. This vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk
that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by traffic
controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) and (4), vehicular traffic
facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) and (4), vehicular traffic
facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to make the
movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection to make a
movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and local
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (2).
After stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the right of way
to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by division (D)(1) or (2), the driver of
a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails to change to a
green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than 120 seconds
because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to detect the
arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle’s size or weight, shall
have the right to proceed, after yielding the right of way to oncoming traffic
facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign as required by §
70.41.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(625 ILCS 5/11-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm
symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk”
signal or upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he or she shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow
normal safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he or
she shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(625 ILCS 5/11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
conjunction with a traffic- control device, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(625 ILCS 5/11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in the village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-
Highway Act, 605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(625 ILCS 5/11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/11-311) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure, or
remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/11-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Village Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals, or markers in letters not less than three-
eighths inch, or more than three-quarters inch in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching, or other permanent means. Except for employees of the Village
Street Department, police officers, contractors and their employees engaged in
a highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by the village,
it is unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal, or marker so
identified.
(625 ILCS 5/11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be travelled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for
which no penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Traffic violations.  Whoever violates any provision of this traffic
code for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance
or by appropriate statutory penalty as generally set forth in 625 ILCS 5/16-101
et seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $750.
   (C)   Parking violations. Any person accused of a violation of any provision
of this traffic code prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or
restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there parked, or parking in a
metered area without putting a coin in the meter to cover the required time,
may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for the illegal parking
by paying to the village $3 for each such offense if paid within five days, or
$10 if paid within 21 days. This payment may be made at the police station, a
receipt shall be issued for all money so received, and the money shall be
promptly turned over to the Village Treasurer to be credited to the General
Fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain
from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved. This section
shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or
exit of any place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or other emergency
equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency entrance in a
hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with parking a
vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or parking
in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic
only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the
request of any member of the Police Department.
   (D)   Obedience to police officers.  Any person convicted of violating §
70.10 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$150.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203)
   (E)   Obedience to traffic-control devices. Any violation of §
70.30(A) that occurs within a designated highway construction zone or
maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less than $100 and no more than
$1,000.
(625 ILCS 5/11-305)
   (F)   Interference wit traffic-control devices. Every person who is
convicted of a violation of §
70.36 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalties which may be imposed.
(625 ILCS 5/11-311)
   (G)   Damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures.  Every person who
is convicted of a violation of §
70.37 shall be punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other
penalty which may be imposed.
(625 ILCS 5/11-312)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits for school zones, construction and the like
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.999   Penalty
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, URBAN DISTRICT does not include any
interstate highway as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-133.1 which includes all highways
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway of this village at a
speed which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit
established by division (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H) of this section, by 625 ILCS
5/11-605 or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
(625 ILCS 5/11-601(a) - (c))
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district shall be as determined under
625 ILCS 5/11-601.
   (E)   A first violation of this section is a petty offense with a minimum
fine of $150. A second or subsequent violation of this section is a petty
offense with a minimum fine of $300.
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1 and 625 ILCS 5/11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS FOR SCHOOL ZONES, CONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   School speed zones.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   A public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 mph while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a local, county,
or state roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare
where children pass going to and from school.
      (3)   For the purpose of section, a SCHOOL DAY begins at 6:30 a.m. and
concludes at 4:00 p.m.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under their respective jurisdiction and
maintained by the village wherein the school zone is located. With regard to
the special speed limit while passing schools, such signs shall give proper due
warning that a school zone is being approached, and shall indicate the school
zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when school
children are present.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(a))
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding, provided the use of
the device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the
special school speed zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(c))
   (B)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zones.
      (1)   (a)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are present.
         (b)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are not present.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a construction or maintenance
speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding, provided the use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of
the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
      (3)   (a)   As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED
ZONE is an area in which the Department, Toll Highway Authority, or local
agency has posted signage advising drivers that a construction or maintenance
speed zone is being approached, or in which the Department, Authority, or local
agency has posted a lower speed limit with a highway construction or
maintenance speed zone special speed limit sign after determining that the
preexisting established speed limit through a highway construction or
maintenance project is greater than is reasonable or safe with respect to the
conditions expected to exist in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
         (b)   If it is determined that the preexisting established speed limit
is safe with respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or
maintenance speed zone, additional speed limit signs which conform to the
requirements of this division (B)(3) shall be posted.
         (c)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed
limit signs shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs must
give proper due warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached and must indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs also
must state the amount of the minimum fine for a violation.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(a) - (c))
      (4)   The Department of State Police and the village Police Department
have concurrent jurisdiction over any violation of this division (B) that
occurs on an interstate highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(e-5))
      (5)   For a second or subsequent violation of this division (B) within
two years of the date of the previous violation, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver’s license of the violator for a period of 90 days. This
suspension shall only be imposed if the current violation of this division (B)
and at least one prior violation of this division (B) occurred during a period
when workers were present in the construction or maintenance zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(g))
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in the village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/11-611) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his or her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
71.999
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by those devices.
   (B)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(625 ILCS 5/11-801) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(625 ILCS 5/11-802) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(625 ILCS 5/11-803) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in 625 ILCS 5/12-208 must be
used and operated as prescribed in division (B) above to indicate an intention
to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left
upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked position. Unless the conditions
of division (B) above are met, an electric turn signal device required in 625
ILCS 5/12-208 shall not be left in the on position and, must not be flashed on
one side only on a parked or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do
pass” signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However,
signal devices may be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle
to indicate the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care
in approaching, overtaking, and passing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-804) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in 625 ILCS 5/12-208.
(625 ILCS 5/11-805) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(625 ILCS 5/11-806) Penalty, see §
71.999
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two-lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. However,
this division shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center
line in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   (1)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access-controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
      (2)   Division (D)(1) does not apply:
         (a)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
         (b)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to
drive in the right lane;
         (c)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it
necessary to drive in the left lane;
         (d)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
         (e)   When a vehicle change lanes to comply with 625 ILCS 5/11-907,
11-907.5, and 11-908;
         (f)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
         (g)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic control device; or
         (h)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances, and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties an vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operation.
(625 ILCS 5/11-701) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(625 ILCS 5/11-702) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the
same direction on a highway may, subject to the provisions in division (D) of
this section and 625 ILCS 5/11-706, pass to the left of the bicycle on a
portion of the highway designated as a no-passing zone under 625 ILCS 5/11-707
of this Code if the driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle when:
      (1)   The bicycle is traveling at a speed of less than half of the posted
speed limit of the highway;
      (2)   The driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle without
exceeding the posted speed limit of the highway; and
      (3)   There is sufficient distance to the left of the centerline of the
highway for the motor vehicle to meet the overtaking and passing requirements
under this section.
   (F)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close, to, toward, or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian, or a person riding a horse or driving an animal drawn vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-703(a) - (e)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division (B) does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. This movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-704) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(625 ILCS 5/11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when
the movements can be made with safety.
(625 ILCS 5/11-706) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. The stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in 625 ILCS 5/12-803 and 12-805. The driver of the vehicle
shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the
vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals
are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by 625 ILCS 5/12-803 shall be extended
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated after the school
bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or discharging
pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in motion again.
The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided
in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing headlamps permitted by 625 ILCS 5/12-805
may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal maps
required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a) - (e)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(625 ILCS 5/11-708) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those
portions of any highway within the village where overtaking and passing or
driving on the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of
the zones, and when signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §§
71.040(A)(2), 71.042(E) nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or
from an alley, private road, or driveway. The pavement striping designed to
mark the no-passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose
of completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver’s direction of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/11-707) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing except when it is necessary to use a
different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this Section if he or she is complying
with 625 ILCS 5/11-907, 625 ILCS 5/11-907.5, or 625 ILCS 5/11-908.
(625 ILCS 5/11-709) Penalty, see §
71.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-901) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(625 ILCS 5/11-902) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/11-903) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(625 ILCS 5/11-904) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-905) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(625 ILCS 5/11-906) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1))
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-907(b)) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional offenses; statutory penalties, see 625 ILCS 5/11-907
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer; and
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do
so by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in the procession if the overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when the vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in the procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may utilize
funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard warning
signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or his or her designee may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1420) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and he or she can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall
apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and the train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever any person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined
in 625 ILCS 5/6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is
not always required to stop, the person must exercise due care and caution as
the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of danger, and
under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall stop
within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail of the
railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks are clear and he or she can do
so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal, and such railroad train or railroad
track equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing; and
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (3)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
625 ILCS 5/6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is not
always required to stop but must slow down, the person must exercise due care
and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning
of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the
driver shall slow down within 50 feet, but not less that 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she checks that
the tracks are clear of an approaching train or railroad track equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   The Department, and village authorities with the approval of the
Department, are hereby authorized to designate particularly dangerous highway
grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat. When such stop
signs are erected the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only
upon exercising due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates, or a
human flagger giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or railroad
track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad
crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for
the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly
marked stopped line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she can do so safely. If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad
crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment
after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference
is prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
   (E)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a) - (d-1)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before
crossing a railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet
but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall
listen and look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment, and
shall not proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
         (a)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire; and
         (b)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in 625 ILCS 5/12-801, 12-803, and 12-805. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division
(A), must also turn off all noise-producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and open the service door
and driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks.
      (2)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing
a railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
         (a)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/6-500,
carrying passengers for hire;
         (b)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in 625 ILCS 5/12-801, 12-803, and 12-805 and is designed to transport 16
or more persons, including the driver. The driver of the bus, in addition to
complying with all other applicable requirements of this division (A)(2), must
also turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater blowers,
defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and open the service door and
driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks; and
         (c)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to
be placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (430 ILCS 30/3).
      (3)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall
proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and
the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagger;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) of this section shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1202) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1205) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   (1)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed. Any person found in violation of this
division (B) shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
      (2)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in 625
ILCS 5/6-500, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1425(a) - (b-5)) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled- access highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1402) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-710) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his or her control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1406) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1407) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1410) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by
human power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device, nor to any
motorized wheelchair.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of the village from regulating
or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1)
   (C)   A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater than eight miles per hour.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter, as defined in the Litter
Control Act, 415 ILCS 105/3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
415 ILCS 5/3.215, hazardous waste as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.220, and
potentially infectious medical waste as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, dropped
upon the highway from such vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1413) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within the
village, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1416) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in the village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase
to its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1418) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(625 ILCS 5/11-711) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the village, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police or other authorized village official on
forms provided by such officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the Village Board of
Trustees from time to time.
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall issue a
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Village Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30
days after notice of denial. The Village Board of Trustees shall act on the
appeal within 30 days after its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor and the Fire Chief.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when those vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized
village official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public
thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
Signs shall be posted to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall
be liable for parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs
have been posted in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) below, a person
who violates §
71.002(A) is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of §
71.002(A) are punishable with a minimum fine of $150 for the first violation, a
minimum fine of $300 for the second or subsequent violation, and community
service in an amount determined by the court.
         (b)   A person committing a violation of §
71.002(A) is guilty of aggravated special speed limit while passing schools
when he or she drives a motor vehicle at a speed that is:
            1.   Twenty-six mph or more but less than 35 mph in excess of the
applicable special speed limit established under division (A) or a similar
provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor; or
            2.   Thirty-five mph or more in excess of the applicable special
speed limit established under §
71.002(A) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class
A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(e), (e-5))
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided under division (B)(2)(b) below, a person
who violates §
71.002(B) is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of §
71.002(B) are punishable with a minimum fine of $250 for the first violation
and a minimum fine of $750 for the second or subsequent violation.
         (b)   A person committing a violation of §
71.002(B) is guilty of aggravated special speed limit while traveling through a
highway construction or maintenance speed zone when he or she drives a motor
vehicle at a speed that is:
            1.   Twenty-six mph or more but less than 35 mph in excess of the
applicable special speed limit established under §
71.002(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class
B misdemeanor; or
            2.   Thirty-five mph or more in excess of the applicable special
speed limit established under §
71.002(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class
A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(d), (d-5)
   (C)   Every person convicted of §
71.042(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not
result in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another.
(625 ILCS 5/11-703(f))
   (D)   In addition to the suspensions authorized by 625 ILCS 5/11-1414, any
person convicted of violating §
71.045 or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $300 or, upon a second or subsequent violation, $1,000, and
community service in an amount set by the court.
   (E)   It is unlawful to violate any part of §
71.080.
      (1)   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a fine of
$500 shall be imposed for a first violation, and a fine of $1,000 shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $500 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
      (3)   Corporate authorities of village corporations regulating operators
of vehicles that fail to obey signals indicating the presence, approach,
passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment shall impose fines
as established in division (E)(1) above.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1201(e))
   (F)   Beginning with January 1, 2009, the Secretary of State shall suspend
for a period of one month the driving privileges of any person convicted of a
violation of §
71.083(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance; the Secretary shall
suspend for a period of three months the driving privileges of any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
71.083(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the second or
subsequent violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction for the
same offense. In addition to the suspensions authorized by this section, any
person convicted of violating §
71.083(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Any person given a
disposition of court supervision for violating §
71.083(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall also be subject to
a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Upon a second or
subsequent violation, in addition to the suspensions authorized by this
section, the person shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 and 50 hours
community service. The Secretary may also grant, for the duration of any
suspension issued under this division, a restricted driving permit granting the
privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver’s residence and place
of employment or within other proper limits that the Secretary of State shall
find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A restricted driving permit issued
hereunder shall be subject to cancellation, revocation and suspension by the
Secretary of State in like manner and for like cause as a driver’s license may
be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more
offenses against laws or ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be
deemed sufficient cause for the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the
restricted driving permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the
issuance of a restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate
in a designated driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a
violation of this division shall be included as an offense for the purposes of
determining suspension action under any other provision of the Vehicle Code;
provided however, that the penalties provided under this division shall be
imposed unless those penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are
greater.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Fines after violating school bus meeting/overtaking provisions, see 625 ILCS
5/11-1414(f)
   Violation of §
71.042(E) resulting in great bodily harm or permanent disability or
disfigurement to another, a Class 3 felony, see 625 ILCS 5/11-703
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
Snow Emergencies
   
72.25   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.26   Termination of emergency
   
72.27   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
72.40   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.41   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except as set forth by ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1304) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1401) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway; or
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1303) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the village regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section, and §
72.10 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which
is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all time that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized under 625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12), if so equipped.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran
with a disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a person with disabilities or a veteran with a disability,
in any parking place, including any private or public off-street parking
facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such registration
plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with disabilities, the
parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the vehicle where it is
clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either hanging from the rearview
mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in clear view. Disability
license plates and parking decals and devices are not transferable from person
to person. Proper usage of the disability license plate or parking decal or
device requires the authorized holder to be present and enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. It is a violation of
this section to park in a space reserved for a person with disabilities if the
authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device
does not enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being
used. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a disability license plate or a
parking decal or device containing the international symbol of access issued to
persons with disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or
foreign country shall be recognized by state and village authorities as a valid
license plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of
this state.
      (1)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
      (2)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking decal
or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decal or device under this code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2))
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b))
   (C)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
72.99 for violations of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d))
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, an individual issued a
parking decal or device under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 or an individual issued a
license plate for veterans with disabilities under 625 ILCS 5/11-609.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(e))
   (E)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(g))
Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Village President finds that falling snow, sleet, or
freezing rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking
of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she
finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the
weather conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary
that such parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce the
prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him or her. After the
effective time of the prohibition no person shall park any vehicle or permit
any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route.
   (B)   However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Village President has not announced prior
to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a
specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked
until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the
Village President under the authority of this section shall remain in effect
until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in
whole, after which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall
no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she is
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If the announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.27 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Village
President. On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route,
special signs shall be posted to this effect.
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.40 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
72.11, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the
roadway.
   (B)   (1)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   Whenever the Department finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle
standing upon the paved or main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or
may be expected to interrupt the free flow of traffic on the highway or
interfere with the maintenance of the highway, the Department is authorized to
move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part
of the highway.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   The person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay; or
      (4)   The registration of the vehicle has been suspended, canceled, or
revoked.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1302)
§ 72.41 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving the vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of the offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates or
digital registration plates and registration sticker or stickers or digital
registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   A violation of any part of §
72.10(A)(1)(h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1303)
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.12(A) shall be fined $250 in addition to the costs or charges connected with
the removal or storage of any motor vehicle authorized under §
72.12; but the village may, by ordinance, impose a fine up to $350 and shall
display signs indicating the fine imposed. If the amount of the fine is
subsequently changed, the village shall change the sign to indicate the current
amount of the fine. It shall not be a defense to a charge under §
72.12(A) that either the sign posted pursuant to §
72.12(A) or the intended accessible parking place does not comply with the
technical requirements of 625 ILCS 5/11-301, Department regulations, or local
ordinance if a reasonable person would be made aware by the sign or notice on
or near the parking place that the place is reserved for a person with
disabilities.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c))
      (2)   (a)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.12(A)(1) a first time shall be fined $600. Any person found guilty of
violating §
72.12(A)(1) a second or subsequent time shall be fined $1,000.
         (b)   Any person who violates §
72.12(A)(2) is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined $2,500. The
Circuit Clerk shall distribute 50% of the fine imposed on any person who is
found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating §
72.12(A)(2), including any person placed on court supervision for violating §
72.12(A)(2), to the law enforcement agency that issued the citation or made the
arrest. If more than one law enforcement agency is responsible for issuing the
citation or making the arrest, the 50% of the fine imposed shall be shared
equally. If an officer of the Secretary of State Department of Police arrested
a person for a violation of §
72.12(A)(2), 50% of the fine imposed shall be deposited into the Secretary of
State Police Services Fund.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c-1))
      (3)   (a)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.12(A)(1) may have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by the
Secretary of State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of State.
         (b)   Any person who commits a violation of §
72.12(A)(2) shall have his or her driving privileges suspended or revoked by
the Secretary of State for a period of time determined by the Secretary of
State.
         (c)   The Secretary of State may also suspend or revoke the disability
license plates or parking decal or device for a period of time determined by
the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(f))
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
Motorcycles and Mopeds
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
   
73.24   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.25   Riding on mopeds
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, including, but not limited to, rights under 625 ILCS 5/11-901 et seq.,
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic code,
and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature
can have no application.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his or her person in a back pack or sling.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable and safe to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle,
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction; or
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division, a SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane that is
too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of the roadway as practicable.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1505.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1506) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, except that a lamp emitting
a steady or flashing red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
may be used in addition to or instead of the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren. This division does not apply to a bicycle that is a Police
Department vehicle or Fire Department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least three-
sixteenths inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as
possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the
bicycle, and which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the
front and rear tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications
prescribed by the State Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1507) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES AND MOPEDS
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one had on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle shall be protected by
glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield. This equipment shall meet the
requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission
Regulation VESC-8, “Minimum Requirements for Motorcyclists’ Eye Protection.”
(625 ILCS 5/11-1404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped on one
wheel is guilty of reckless driving as defined in §
76.01.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating on one wheel prohibited, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2
§ 73.24 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-
powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.25 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons. Any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a moped shall be required to
wear any special goggles, shield, helmet, or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to moped.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Operating on one wheel, see §
73.23
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks; school zones
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Blind, hearing impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian right-of-
way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
74.14   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him or her, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS; SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   Division (A)(1) of this section shall not apply under the condition
stated in §
74.03(B).
      (4)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      (5)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002)
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), SCHOOL has the meaning
ascribed to that term in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
         (a)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic and when traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (B), a school day shall begin
at 7:00 a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
         (c)   This division (B) shall not be applicable unless appropriate
signs are posted in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
      (2)   A first violation of division (B) is a petty offense with a minimum
fine of $150. A second or subsequent violation of division (B) is a petty
offense with a minimum fine of $300.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 BLIND, HEARING-IMPAIRED, OR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind, hearing-
impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. The village shall determine by ordinance where and when
solicitations may take place based on the safety of the solicitors and the
safety of motorists. The decision shall also take into account the orderly flow
of traffic and may not allow interference with the operation of official
traffic control devices. Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be
16 years of age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest. The
soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act, 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.;
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fundraising activity; and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1006(a) - (d)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E), where a sidewalk is provided and
its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E), where a sidewalk is not available,
any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder,
as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), where neither a sidewalk nor a
shoulder is available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall
walk as near as practicable to an outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-
way roadway, shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 miles per
hour or less, and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is
18 years of age or older and wearing in-line speed skates may travel upon the
roadway as near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway. Pedestrians
wearing in-line speed skates upon a roadway may not impede or obstruct other
vehicular traffic. Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to
all other rights and duties under 625 ILCS 5/11-1001 et seq. Nothing in this
title shall be construed to prevent a pedestrian wearing in-line speed skates
from using a lane designated for bicycles.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-
601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the authorized
emergency vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on a
sidewalk.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon, or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the presence, approach, passage, or departure of a railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   (D)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
74.99 for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage, or departure of a train of railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1)
§ 74.14 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   Every person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device upon a
sidewalk or roadway has all the rights and is subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or
preempt the authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local
government from regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal
assistive mobility devices.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of §
74.07 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1006(e))
   (C)   (1)   A violation of §
74.12 is a petty offense for which a $250 fine shall be imposed for a first
violation, and a $500 fine shall be imposed for a second or subsequent
violation. The court may impose 25 hours of community service in place of the
$250 fine for a first violation.
      (2)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in division (C)
(1) above for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage, or departure of a train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1011)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.10   Scope and effect of size, weight, and load regulations
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in 625 ILCS 5/12, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of 625 ILCS 5/12, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail
to perform any act required under 625 ILCS 5/12.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/12, with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not to exceed
36,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to
farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used
during the liquid fertilizer season as field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying
the fertilizer to a field applicator and highways only for bringing the
fertilizer to a field applicator from a local source of supply to the farm or
field or from one farm or field to another.
(625 ILCS 5/12-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.10 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon, or across, or
for the owner to cause to knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon, or
across any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq., or otherwise in violation of
625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq. governing size, weight,
and load do not apply to equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned or
operated by the village, or to implements of husbandry, as defined in §
70.01, temporarily operated or towed in a combination upon a highway provided
such combination does not consist of more than three vehicles or, in the case
of hauling fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of
first processing, not more than three wagons being towed by an implement of
husbandry, or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a special permit. Except
for weight limits on Class I highways under 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq., the
provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq. governing size, weight, and load do not
apply to fire apparatus or emergency vehicles.
   (C)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/15.101 governing size, weight, and load
do not apply to any snow and ice removal equipment that is no more than 12 feet
in width, if the equipment displays flags at least 18 inches square mounted on
the driver’s side of the snow plow. These vehicles must be equipped with an
illuminated rotating, oscillating, or flashing amber light or lights, or a
flashing amber strobe light or lights, mounted on the top of the cab and of
sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. If the load
on the transport vehicle blocks the visibility of the amber lighting from the
rear of the vehicle, the vehicle must also be equipped with an illuminated
rotating, oscillating, or flashing amber light or lights, or a flashing amber
strobe light or lights, mounted on the rear of the load and of sufficient
intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight.
(625 ILCS 5/15-101)
   (D)   No person shall use the highways under the jurisdiction of the village
in violation of weight and location restrictions and commercial vehicle
restrictions set forth in any applicable ordinance.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate loads, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(625 ILCS 5/15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any highway in the village unless the protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(625 ILCS 5/15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The State Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(625 ILCS 5/15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this village, except
in an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than
is reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate
hazard that exists.
(625 ILCS 5/15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Street racing
   
76.03   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Crash involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   False reports
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if he or she:
   (A)   Drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drives a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach, or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 STREET RACING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway
of this state.
      (2)   No person shall engage in a street sideshow on any street or
highway of this state.
   (B)   (1)   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing or a street
sideshow.
      (2)   A person may not knowingly interfere with or cause the movement of
traffic to slow or stop for the purpose of facilitating street racing or a
street sideshow.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the following words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them:
      ACQUIESCE or PERMIT. Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be
used for the purpose of street racing.
      MOTOR VEHICLE STUNT. Includes, but is not limited to, operating a vehicle
in a manner that causes the vehicle to slide or spin, driving within the
proximity of a gathering of persons, performing maneuvers to demonstrate the
performance capability of the motor vehicle, or maneuvering the vehicle in an
attempt to elicit a reaction from a gathering of persons.
      STREET RACING.
         (a)   The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side
at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other;
          (b)   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit;
          (c)   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle;
          (d)   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing;
          (e)   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given
destination ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
          (f)   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long-distance driving routes.
      STREET SIDESHOW. An event in which one or more vehicles block or impede
traffic on a street or highway for the purpose of performing unauthorized motor
vehicle stunts, motor vehicle speed contests, or motor vehicle exhibitions of
speed.
    (D)   Every person convicted of committing a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be guilty of aggravated street racing if the person, in
committing a violation of division (A) was involved in a motor vehicle crash
that resulted in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another, where the violation was a proximate cause of the injury.
(625 ILCS 5/11-506) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle
at the scene of the crash, or as close thereto as possible, and shall then
forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the crash
until the requirements of §
76.04 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the requirements
of division (A) above shall, as soon as possible but in no case later than one-
half hour after such motor vehicle crash, or, if hospitalized and incapacitated
from reporting at any time during such period, as soon as possible but in no
case later than one-half hour after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of the crash, the date, the approximate time, the driver’s name and
address, the registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of all
other occupants of such vehicle, at a police station or sheriff’s office near
the place where such crash occurred. No report made as required under this
division (B) shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a basis for the
prosecution of any violation of division (A).
   (C)   Any person arrested for violating this section is subject to chemical
testing of his or her blood, breath, other bodily substance, or urine for the
presence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds,
or any combination thereof, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1, if the testing
occurs within 12 hours of the time of the occurrence of the crash that led to
his or her arrest. The person’s driving privileges are subject to statutory
summary suspension under 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 if he or she fails testing or
statutory summary revocation under 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 if he or she refuses to
undergo the testing.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor’s
office.
(625 ILCS 5/11-401(a) - (b-1))
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privilege of any
person convicted of a violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-401(e))
Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and shall upon
request and if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the person struck or
the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and
shall render to any person injured in the crash reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of the
person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the motor vehicle crash at the Police Department, disclosing
the information required by this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-403) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 CRASH INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle crash or as
close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
§
76.04 have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this section if the driver
moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to the nearest safe
location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the nearest suitable cross
street, or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic and remains
at that location until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of §
76.04. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction as required by 625 ILCS 5/6-204. Upon
receipt of such report of conviction and statement of finding that the damage
to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, the Secretary of State shall suspend the
driver’s license or any nonresident’s driving privilege.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds: (i) a
vehicle standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
title; or (ii) a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or
toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle
to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) above, as provided
in 625 ILCS 5/4-213(b).
(625 ILCS 5/11-402) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver’s name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver’s name, address, registration number, and
owner of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the Police Department and shall make a written report of such crash when
and as required in §
76.07. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/11-404) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this chapter with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set out in §
76.99.
(625 ILCS 5/11-409) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for
which no penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Reckless driving. Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, except as provided under 625 ILCS 5/11-503 for
felony offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/11-503)
   (C)   Street racing.  
      (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of§
76.02(A) or (B)(2) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first
offense and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $250. Any person convicted of
a violation of division (A) or (B)(2) a second or subsequent time shall be
guilty of a Class Four felony and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $500.
The driver’s license of any person convicted of division (A) or (B)(2) shall be
revoked in the manner provided by 625 ILCS 5/6-205.
 
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of §
76.02(B)(1) shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Any person who is
convicted of division (B)(1) for a second or subsequent time shall be guilty of
a Class A misdemeanor.
      (3) Aggravated street racing, as set out in §
76.02(D), is a Class Four felony for which the defendant, if sentenced to a
term of imprisonment, shall be sentenced to not less than one year nor more
than 12 years.
(625 ILCS 5/11-506)
   (D)   Reporting and rendering aid. Any person failing to comply with §
76.04 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-403)
   (E)   Crash involving damage. Any person failing to comply with §
76.05 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-402(a))
   (F)   Damaging unattended property. Any person failing to comply with §
76.06 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-404)
   (G)   False reports. Any person violating §
76.07 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-409)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER PROGRAM
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
95.   NOISE CONTROL
      
96.   NUISANCES
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
99.   SWIMMING POOLS
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics.
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
90.02   Authority to declare inoperable vehicle a nuisance
   
90.03   Authority to impound; procedure
   
90.04   Notice to be given to registered owner, state police
   
90.05   Reclaiming of vehicle by owner
   
90.06   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.07   Police Department to keep records of reclamation or disposal of vehicle
   
90.08   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
90.09   Liability
   
90.10   Vehicle abandoned in public garage or parking area; operator to notify
police
   
90.11   Presumed liability of registered owner when vehicle abandoned
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The abandonment of a vehicle as described in division (B) of this
section or in §
90.03, or any part thereof, on any highway in this village is unlawful.
   (B)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in this
village is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of the abandoned
vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property shall
be authorized for removal by the Police Department after a waiting period of
seven days or more, or may be removed immediately if determined to be a
hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1.
   (C)   A towing service may begin to process an unclaimed vehicle as
abandoned by requesting a record search by the Secretary of State up to ten
days after the date of the tow, or any later date acceptable to the Secretary
of State. This division (C) shall not apply to vehicles towed by order or
authorization of a law enforcement agency.
(625 ILCS 5/4-201) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 AUTHORITY TO DECLARE INOPERABLE VEHICLE A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Shall mean any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least
six months, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on which
the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor.
      (2)   Shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations nor to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use, to historic vehicles over 25 years of age,
or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   (B)   Leaving of wrecked, non-operating vehicles on street. No person shall
leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on any
street or highway in the village.
   (C)   Inoperable vehicles declared to be a nuisance. Inoperable motor
vehicles, as defined herein, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   Written notice. All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable
motor vehicles under their control upon written notice received from the Board
of Trustees or from the Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department
designated by him or her commanding this disposition of the inoperable motor
vehicle.
   (E)   Impoundment. The Chief of Police or any member of the Police
Department designated by him or her is hereby authorized to remove or have
removed an inoperable vehicle as defined herein. The vehicle shall be impounded
until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with §§
90.03 through
90.09. The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated by
him or her may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of inspecting the vehicle, posting notice thereon, and removing and
impounding the vehicle, and it shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the
Chief of Police or his or her designee from entering on private property for
purposes of carrying out his or her duties hereunder or to interfere with him
or her in the lawful performance of his or her duties under the provisions of
this section.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to declare inoperable motor vehicles as nuisance, see 65 ILCS 5/
11-40-3
   Authority to impound hazardous dilapidated motor vehicles, see 65 ILCS 5/11-
40-3.1
§ 90.03 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on that part of a toll
highway, interstate highway, or expressway within the village for two hours or
more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the Police
Department.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in an urban district for ten
hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the Police
Department.
   (C)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway other than
a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway outside of an urban district
for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the
Police Department.
   (D)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to
the highway by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (E)   Except as provided in 625 ILCS 5/18a-100 et seq., the owner or lessor
of privately owned real property within this village, or any person authorized
by the owner or lessor, or the Police Department in the case of publicly owned
real property, may cause any motor vehicle abandoned or left unattended upon
the property without permission to be removed by a towing service without
liability for the costs of removal, transportation, or storage or damage caused
by the removal, transportation, or storage. The towing or removal of any
vehicle from private property without the consent of the registered owner or
other legally authorized person in control of the vehicle is subject to
compliance with the following conditions and restrictions:
      (1)   Any towed or removed vehicle must be stored at the site of the
towing service’s place of business. The site must be open during business
hours, and for the purpose of redemption of vehicles, during the time that the
person or firm towing the vehicle is open for towing purposes.
      (2)   The towing service shall, within 30 minutes of completion of the
towing or removal, notify the Police Department of the towing or removal, and
the make, model, color, and license plate number of the vehicle, and shall
obtain and record the name of the person at the Police Department to whom the
information was reported.
      (3)   If the registered owner or legally authorized person entitled to
possession of the vehicle shall arrive at the scene prior to actual removal or
towing of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be disconnected from the tow truck and
that person shall be allowed to remove the vehicle without interference, upon
the payment of a reasonable service fee of not more than one-half the posted
rate of the towing service as provided in division (E)(6) below, for which a
receipt shall be given.
      (4)   The rebate or payment of money or any other valuable consideration
from the towing service or its owners, managers, or employees to the owners or
operators of the premises from which the vehicles are towed or removed, for the
privilege of removing or towing those vehicles, is prohibited.
      (5)   Except for property appurtenant to and obviously a part of a
single-family residence, and except for instances where notice is personally
given to the owner or other legally authorized person in control of the vehicle
that the area in which that vehicle is parked is reserved or otherwise
unavailable to unauthorized vehicles and they are subject to being removed at
the owner or operator’s expense, any property owner or lessor, prior to towing
or removing any vehicle from private property without the consent of the owner
or other legally authorized person in control of that vehicle, must post a
notice meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   1.   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(5)(a)2. below,
the notice must be prominently placed at each driveway access or curb cut
allowing vehicular access to the property within five feet from the public
right-of-way line. If there are no curbs or access barriers, the sign must be
posted not less than one sign each 100 feet of lot frontage.
            2.   In a municipality with a population of less than 250,000, as
an alternative to the requirement of division (E)(5)(a)1. above, the notice for
a parking lot contained within property used solely for a two-family, three-
family, or four-family residence may be prominently placed at the perimeter of
the parking lot in a position where the notice is visible to the occupants of
vehicles entering the lot.
         (b)   The notice must indicate clearly, in not less than two-inch high
light-reflective letters on a contrasting background, that unauthorized
vehicles will be towed away at the owner’s expense.
         (c)   The notice must also provide the name and current telephone
number of the towing service towing or removing the vehicle.
         (d)   The sign structure containing the required notices must be
permanently installed with the bottom of the sign not less than four feet above
ground level, and must be continuously maintained on the property for not less
than 24 hours prior to the towing or removing of any vehicle.
      (6)   Any towing service that tows or removes vehicles and proposes to
require the owner, operator, or person in control of the vehicle to pay the
costs of towing and storage prior to redemption of the vehicle must file and
keep on record with the Police Department a complete copy of the current rates
to be charged for these services, and post at the storage site an identical
rate schedule and any written contracts with property owners, lessors, or
persons in control of property which authorize them to remove vehicles as
provided in this section. The towing and storage charges, however, shall not
exceed the maximum allowed by the Illinois Commerce Commission under 625 ILCS
5/18a-200.
      (7)   No person shall engage in the removal of vehicles from private
property as described in this section without filing a notice of intent in the
village, and the notice shall be filed at least seven days before commencing
the towing.
      (8)   No removal of a vehicle from private property shall be done except
upon express written instructions of the owners or persons in charge of the
private property upon which the vehicle is said to be trespassing.
      (9)   (a)   Vehicle entry for the purpose of removal shall be allowed
with reasonable care on the part of the person or firm towing the vehicle. The
person or firm shall be liable for any damages occasioned to the vehicle if the
entry is not in accordance with the standards of reasonable care.
         (b)   Except as authorized by a law enforcement officer, no towing
service shall engage in the removal of a commercial motor vehicle that requires
a commercial driver’s license to operate by operating the vehicle under its own
power on a highway.
      (10)   When a vehicle has been towed or removed pursuant to this section,
it must be released to its owner, custodian, agent, or lienholder within one-
half hour after requested, if the request is made during business hours. Any
vehicle owner, custodian, agent, or lienholder shall have the right to inspect
the vehicle before accepting its return, and no release or waiver of any kind
which would release the towing service from liability for damages incurred
during the towing and storage may be required from any vehicle owner or other
legally authorized person as a condition of release of the vehicle. A detailed,
signed receipt showing the legal name of the towing service must be given to
the person paying towing or storage charges at the time of payment, whether
requested or not.
         (a)   This section shall not apply to law enforcement, firefighting,
rescue, ambulance, or other emergency vehicles which are marked as such or to
property owned by any governmental entity.
         (b)   When an authorized person improperly causes a motor vehicle to
be removed, the person shall be liable to the owner or lessee of the vehicle
for the cost of removal, transportation, and storage, any damages resulting
from the removal, transportation, and storage, attorney’s fee, and court costs.
         (c)   Any towing or storage charges accrued shall be payable in cash
or by cashier's check, certified check, debit card, credit card, or wire
transfer, at the option of the party taking possession of the vehicle.
      (11)   Towing companies shall also provide insurance coverage for areas
where vehicles towed under the provisions of this chapter will be impounded or
otherwise stored, and shall adequately cover loss by fire, theft, or other
risks.
   (F)   When a vehicle is determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor
vehicle pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1 or 55 ILCS 5/5-12002.1, its removal and
impoundment by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
(625 ILCS 5/4-203(a) - (d), (f), (g)(1))
   (G)   When a vehicle is removed as set forth herein, the owner of the
vehicle shall be responsible for all towing and storage charges. Vehicles may
become subject to a lien as set forth in 625 ILCS 5/4-203(g) for unpaid
charges.
   (H)   Whenever a peace officer issues a citation to a driver for a violation
of street racing, as set forth in 625 ILCS 5/11-506, the arresting officer may
have the vehicle which the person was operating at the time of the arrest
impounded for a period of five days after the time of arrest. An impounding
agency shall release a motor vehicle impounded under this division (H) to the
registered owner of the vehicle under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the vehicle is a stolen vehicle;
      (2)   If the person ticketed for a violation of 625 ILCS 5/11-506(a) was
not authorized by the registered owner of the vehicle to operate the vehicle at
the time of the violation;
       (3)   If the registered owner of the vehicle was neither the driver nor
a passenger in the vehicle at the time of the violation or was unaware that the
driver was using the vehicle to engage in street racing;
      (4)    If the legal owner or registered owner of the vehicle is a rental
car agency; or
       (5)   If, prior to the expiration of the impoundment period specified
above, the citation is dismissed or the defendant is found not guilty of the
offense.
(625 ILCS 5/4-203(h))
   (I)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in this village not the owner of
the vehicle, that person shall immediately notify the Police Department. Upon
receipt of this notification, the police will authorize a towing service to
remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed
vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, and maintain a record of the tow as set forth in division (J) below
until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or other person legally entitled to
possession thereof or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/4-202)
   (J)   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in this
section:
      (1)   The authorization, any hold order, and any release shall be in
writing, or confirmed in writing, with a copy given to the towing service.
      (2)   The Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade
name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number,
license plate or digital license plate year and number, and registration
sticker or digital registration sticker year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or other legally entitled person shall be
responsible to the towing service for payment of applicable removal, towing,
storage, and processing charges and collection costs associated with a vehicle
towed or held under order or authorization of the Police Department. If a
vehicle towed or held under order or authorization of the Police Department is
seized by the Police Department or any other law enforcement or governmental
agency and sold, any unpaid removal, towing, storage, and processing charges
and collection costs shall be paid to the towing service from the proceeds of
the sale. If applicable law provides that the proceeds are to be paid into the
treasury of the appropriate civil jurisdiction, then any unpaid removal,
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs shall be paid to
the towing service from the treasury of the civil jurisdiction. That payment
shall not, however, exceed the amount of proceeds from the sale, with the
balance to be paid by the owner, operator, or other legally entitled person.
      (4)   Upon delivery of a written release order to the towing service, a
vehicle subject to a hold order shall be released to the owner, operator, or
other legally entitled person upon proof of ownership or other entitlement and
upon payment of applicable removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(625 ILCS 5/4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of vehicle driven by person arrested for driving under the
influence of alcohol, drugs or the like, see 625 ILCS 5/4-203(e)
§ 90.04 NOTICE TO BE GIVEN TO REGISTERED OWNER, STATE POLICE.
   (A)   (1)   When the law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of a
vehicle does not know the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally-entitled person, it will cause the vehicle registration records
of the state to be searched by the Secretary of State for the purpose of
obtaining the required ownership information.
      (2)   (a)   The law enforcement agency will cause the stolen motor
vehicle files of the state police to be searched by a directed communication to
the state police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
state police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the state police. The information determined from these record
searches will be returned to the law enforcement agency for use in sending
notice by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally-
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made, and setting forth public sale information.
         (b)   Notification shall be sent no later than ten business days after
the date the Police Department impounds or authorizes the impounding of a
vehicle, provided that if the law enforcement agency is unable to determine the
identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally- entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten-day business period after
impoundment, then notification shall be sent no later than two days after the
date the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally
entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a
notification by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally-entitled persons are as set forth in §
90.06(B).
      (3)   (a)   When ownership information is needed for a towing service to
give notification as required under this chapter, the towing service may cause
the vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by the Secretary
of State, and in this case, the towing service also shall give notice to all
lienholders of record within the time period required for such other notices.
         (b)   The written request of a towing service, in the form and
containing the information prescribed by the Secretary of State by rule, may be
transmitted to the Secretary of State in person, by U.S. mail or other delivery
service, by facsimile transmission, or by other means the Secretary of State
deems acceptable.
         (c)   The Secretary of State shall provide the required information,
or a statement that the information was not found in the vehicle registration
records of the state, by U.S. mail or other delivery service, facsimile
transmission, as requested by the towing service, or by other means acceptable
to the Secretary of State.
      (4)   The Secretary of State may prescribe standards and procedures for
submission of requests for record searches and replies via computer link.
      (5)   Fees for services provided under this section shall be in amounts
prescribed by the Secretary of State under 625 ILCS 5/3-821.1. Payment may be
made by the towing service using cash, any commonly accepted credit card, or
any other means of payment deemed acceptable by the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/4-205)
   (B)   When the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally
entitled to the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or other state, if applicable, the Police
Department shall notify the state police for the purpose of identifying the
vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. The information obtained by the state police will be immediately
forwarded to the Police Department for notification purposes as set forth in
division (A) above.
(625 ILCS 5/4-206)
§ 90.05 RECLAIMING OF VEHICLE BY OWNER.
   Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided
in §
90.06(A), the owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof
of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle
shall be released to the owner, lienholder, or other person under this section
until all towing, storage, and processing charges have been paid.
(625 ILCS 5/4-207)
§ 90.06 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles with notice.
      (1)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle seven years
of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons for a period of 30 days after notice has been given as
required by §
90.04, the Police Department or towing service having possession of the vehicle
shall cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as an
automotive parts recycler, rebuilder, or scrap processor under state law or the
towing operator which towed the vehicle. Notice of the time and place of the
sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the
sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days
prior to the sale, the Police Department where the vehicle is impounded, or the
towing service where the vehicle is impounded, shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner,
lienholder, or other legally entitled persons. Notice as provided by §
90.04 shall state the time and place of sale and shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally-entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
      (2)   If an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle displays dealer
plates, notice under division (B) of this section shall be sent to both the
dealer and the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled persons.
      (3)   In those instances where the certified notification specified in §
90.04 has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department or
towing service, the sending of a second certified notice will not be required.
(625 ILCS 5/4-208)
   (B)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles more than seven years of age; disposal
of abandoned or unclaimed vehicles without notice.
      (1)   When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided in §
90.06(A) without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
      (2)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, or when any such vehicle is towed at
the request or with the consent of the owner or operator and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage for a minimum of ten days for
the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally entitled persons and contacting the registered owner, lienholder,
or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. Mail, public service, or in
person for a determination of disposition; and an examination of the State
Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration
of the ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being
received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
persons, the vehicle may be disposed of in either of the following ways:
         (a)   The law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will authorize
the disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage.
         (b)   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner provided
in division (A) of this section, provided that this division (B)(2) shall not
apply to vehicles towed by order or authorization of a law enforcement agency.
      (3)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, expanded use antique
vehicle, custom vehicle, or street rod may, however, be sold to a person
desiring to restore it.
(625 ILCS 5/4-209)
   (C)   Collection of unpaid charges. In an action to collect towing, storage,
and processing charges that remain unpaid after disposition of a vehicle towed
or relocated under this chapter, the towing service may recover reasonable
collection costs.
(625 ILCS 5/4-209.2)
   (D)   Titling vehicles after public sale; removal of liens. When an
applicant for a certificate of title under this chapter presents to the
Secretary of State proof that he or she has purchased or acquired a vehicle at
a public sale as authorized by this chapter and the fact is certified to by the
Police Department of this village, the Secretary of State shall issue a
certificate of title for the vehicle upon receipt of the statutory fee and a
properly executed application for a certificate of title. The title issued by
the Secretary of State under this division shall be free of any lien that
existed against the vehicle prior to the time the vehicle was acquired by the
applicant under this chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/4-212)
§ 90.07 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO KEEP RECORDS OF RECLAMATION OR DISPOSAL OF
VEHICLE.
   When a vehicle in the custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the
registered owner, lienholder, or other legally-entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Police
Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(625 ILCS 5/4-210)
§ 90.08 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the village is authorized to be towed away by
the Police Department and disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the
proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of towing,
storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the Treasury of the
village.
(625 ILCS 5/4-211)
§ 90.09 LIABILITY.
   (A)   A police officer or the Police Department, or the towing service
owner, operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for
damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner,
or his or her legal representative, lienholder, or any other person legally
entitled to the possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold
or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A towing service, and any of its officers or employees, that removes
or tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by a law enforcement
officer or agency or by the Police Department shall not be held to answer or be
liable for loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs in
the course of the removal or towing of a vehicle or its contents either on a
limited access highway in a designated Incident Management Program that uses
fast lane clearance techniques as defined by the Department of Transportation,
or at the direction of a peace officer, a highway authority official, or a
representative of local authorities, under 625 ILCS 5/11-402 or 11-404.
(625 ILCS 5/4-213)
§ 90.10 VEHICLE ABANDONED IN PUBLIC GARAGE OR PARKING AREA; OPERATOR TO NOTIFY
POLICE.
   (A)   An operator of a place of business for garaging, repairing, parking,
or storing vehicles for the public, in which a vehicle remains unclaimed, after
being left for the purpose of garaging, repairing, parking, or storage, for a
period of 15 days, shall, within five days after the expiration of that period,
report the vehicle as unclaimed to the Village Police Department.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle:
      (1)   Removed to a place of storage by the Village Police Department in
accordance with §§
90.01 and
90.03; or
      (2)   Left under a garaging, repairing, parking, or storage order signed
by the owner, lessor, or other legally entitled person.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section will result in the forfeiture of
storage fees for that vehicle involved.
(625 ILCS 5/4-107(c))
§ 90.11 PRESUMED LIABILITY OF REGISTERED OWNER WHEN VEHICLE ABANDONED.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned, it shall be presumed that the last
registered owner is responsible for the abandonment and shall be liable for all
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs, less any amounts
realized in the disposal of the vehicle. The last registered owner’s liability
for storage fees may not exceed a maximum of 30 days’ storage fees.
   (B)   The presumption established under division (A) above may be rebutted
by showing that prior to the time of the tow:
      (1)   A report of vehicle theft was filed with respect to the vehicle; or
      (2)   The vehicle was sold or transferred and the last registered owner
provides the towing service with the correct identity and address of the new
owner at the time of the sale or transfer.
   (C)   If the presumption established under division (A) above is rebutted,
the person responsible for theft of the vehicle or to whom the vehicle was sold
or transferred is liable for all towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(625 ILCS 5/4-214) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §§
90.01 and
90.02 or who aids and abets in that violation:
      (1)   Shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $200; and
      (2)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing, storage, and processing
charges and collections costs pursuant to §
90.03.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who fails to comply with the conditions and
restrictions of §
90.03(E) shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(625 ILCS 5/4-203(f))
      (2)   Any individual who violates §
90.03(E)(4) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/4-203(f)(4))
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Authority of Animal Control Officer
   
91.03   Restraint of dogs and other animals
   
91.04   Animals as nuisances
   
91.05   Keeping animals
   
91.06   Biting animals
   
91.07   Confinement of dangerous animals; warning
   
91.08   Killing or attacking animals prohibited; exceptions
   
91.09   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
91.10   Cock fighting, dog fighting prohibited
   
91.11   Disposal of dead animals
   
91.12   Injured animals; animals found dead on public ways
Dog Inoculation; Licensing
   
91.15   Inoculation of dogs; inoculation tag affixed to collars
   
91.16   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
91.17   Duration of inoculation
   
91.18   Exhibition of certificate on request
   
91.19   Village identification tag; dog tax
Administration; Enforcement
   
91.30   Interference with enforcement prohibited
   
91.31   Authority to impound animals and enter onto private property
   
91.32   Impoundment of animals which have bitten persons
   
91.33   Notice to owners or keepers of impoundment and violation
   
91.34   Redemption of impounded animals
   
91.35   Disposition of animals
   
91.36   Issuance of citations to persons in violation
   
91.37   Hearings on citations
   
91.38   Payment to avoid prosecution
   
91.39   Prosecution of violations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All animals, including mammals, reptiles, birds, and fish, unless
the section limits the application to a particular species of animal.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Village Chief of Police, or police officers
authorized him or her to perform his or her duties on his or her behalf, or
other person appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
   AT LARGE. Any animal not under restraint as defined herein.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which shall at any time have
bitten any human being; or whom the owner or keeper should reasonably know to
have dangerous propensities and to pose a threat to the public: or which has
been or is trained to attack persons or animals on command; or which at any
time has killed or seriously injured another domestic animal.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The State Department of Agriculture.
   DOG. All animals, regardless of sex, of the canine species.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture, of the canine anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Department.
   OWNER OR KEEPER. A person having a right of property in an animal, who keeps
or harbors the animal, who cares for or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by the
person.
   POUND. The county pound or other facility approved by the Chief of Police
for the impoundment of animals.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE. The entranceway of a residence or other building closest to
the public street or sidewalk or one which would be reasonably perceived by the
public to be the entrance to the dwelling available for public use.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint if it is:
      (1)   Attached to a leash held by a responsible person;
      (2)   Under the effective voice control of a responsible person;
      (3)   Attached to a structure or fixture in such a manner that it is
unable to reach beyond the limits of the owner’s or keeper’s property and is
unable to reach or molest service persons or casual visitors to the owner’s or
keeper’s property using the public entrance or persons placing mail in the
mailbox or delivering newspapers at the request of the owners; or
      (4)   Enclosed in a fenced yard from which it is unable to escape without
assistance from a person.
   WORKING DAY. Any day when the office or public entity referred to was open
for the transaction of business.
§ 91.02 AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   Without limiting those powers and duties prescribed by law and ordinance,
the Animal Control Officer shall:
   (A)   Exercise the power and perform the duties contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Impound animals pursuant to provisions of this chapter at the county
animal pound or other facility established by the Police Department.
§ 91.03 RESTRAINT OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all
times and shall not permit the animal to be at large.
   (B)   No person shall allow any animals except as otherwise provided by the
zoning or other ordinance of the village to be at large anywhere within the
village. Animals or fowl herded or the animals tethered for grazing purposes
shall be deemed to be at large.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ANIMALS AS NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner or keeper shall not suffer or permit any animal to bark,
howl, cry, or make other distressing or loud or unusual noise or to disturb the
peace or quiet of any place, neighborhood, family, or person in the village.
The disturbing of any neighborhood or persons by any such animal is declared to
be a nuisance, and no person shall suffer or permit any such nuisance and to
exist.
   (B)   In addition to the general restrictions of division (A) above, for the
purpose of this section, an owner or keeper is in violation of this section if
he or she permits a dog to bark in a substantially continuous manner between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. for a period of more than 15 minutes, or
who allows the animal to bark for numerous periods of time, regardless of
duration, so as to disturb the quiet of the neighborhood or of particular
neighbors.
   (C)   In case any animal shall repeatedly disturb the peace or quiet of any
place or neighborhood or become a nuisance as defined in this chapter the
village may petition the Circuit Court for an order to destroy the animal.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   Any pen, stable, or place in which animals are housed or kept which is
unreasonably offensive to persons residing in, or passing along any street or
alley near, the vicinity of the same, due to associated debris or odors, or
which constitute a hazard to the health of persons residing nearby, is declared
to be a nuisance.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 BITING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of an animal shall suffer, permit, or fail to prevent an
animal from biting or attacking a person or another animal resulting in injury
to the person or animal attacked, provided that such an attack on a person who
is or reasonably appears to be in the commission of an act made punishable
under the state criminal code is not prohibited if the animal is acting in the
defense of the owner or keeper or his or her family or premises, and the animal
remains on its premises. For purposes of this section, it is not necessary that
the person bitten or attacked be arrested or convicted of a criminal offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS; WARNING.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor within the village any animal
known to be dangerous or vicious, unless the person shall keep the animal
safely and securely confined so as to protect from injury any child or other
person who may come on the premises in the vicinity where the animal may be
located.
   (B)   Adequate warning by sign, or otherwise, shall be given to all persons
coming on the premises in the vicinity of any such vicious or dangerous animal.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 KILLING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound by the use
of firearms, sling shot, bow and arrow, B.B. gun, air rifle, or any other
dangerous weapon, any animal within the village limits, provided that this
section shall not prohibit a person from defending himself or another from
attack by an animal.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the use of a weapon by a police officer
to destroy animals which are seriously injured to avoid unnecessary suffering,
or in self-defense or defense of others.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall commit acts of cruelty to animals. The following acts
shall be deemed to be examples of cruelty to animals and are not intended to be
a complete list of acts which may constitute cruelty.
      (1)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or killing any animal or causing or knowingly allowing
the same to be done;
      (2)   Cruelly working any old, maimed, injured, sick, or disabled animal
or causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done;
      (3)   Failing to provide any animal in one’s charge or custody, as owner
or keeper, with proper food, drink, shelter, air, sanitation, or medical care;
and
      (4)   Abandoning any animal without making provisions for its care and
feeding.
   (B)   Doctors of veterinary medicine, in the performance of their
profession, are not subject to this provision of this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 COCK FIGHTING, DOG FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use or keep animals or be in any way connected with the
management of any place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any
dogs, cocks, or other animals or permit the place to be kept or used on
premises owned or controlled by the persons.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal shall be responsible for the disposal
of the animal’s remains on its death, from whatever cause, and regardless of
the location of the remains of the animals.
   (B)   Animal remains shall be disposed of:
      (1)   By burial beneath at least 18 inches of compacted soil on the
property of the animal’s owner or keeper or any other location with the express
permission of the owner of the property;
      (2)   By or through the County Animal Pound;
      (3)   By or through a licensed veterinarian; or
      (4)   By action of the Police Department.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer may issue a written notice to any owner or
keeper who has failed to properly dispose of the remains of an animal as
prescribed herein. The person shall have 24 hours from receipt of the notice to
properly dispose of the remains. The notice shall be served on the violator
personally or by leaving the notice at his or her usual place of abode with
some person of the family, of the age of 13 years or upwards and informing that
person of the contents thereof.
   (D)   The village may dispose of any animal remains without notice to the
owner or keeper when:
      (1)   The remains are located on a public roadway;
      (2)   The remains bear no village identification tags as required by this
chapter;
      (3)   The remains are located on the property of a person other than the
owner or keeper; or
      (4)   Service of a notice on the owner or keeper is refused or not
readily possible within a short time.
   (E)   In any case where a disposal notice is required, in accordance with
division (C) above, on failure of a person served a notice to properly dispose
of the remains within the time allowed, the remains may be disposed of by
employees of the village, and all costs of the removal shall be paid by the
owner or keeper of the dead animal to the village.
   (F)   A minimum charge of $50 for each hour or part of an hour spent by
animal control officers or other village employees in disposing of the remains
shall be levied against the owner or keeper when the village disposes of the
remains. The village may institute legal proceedings to collect any amount
owing by the owner or keeper, provided that the suit is filed within two years
of the issuance of the notice or disposal of the remains if no notice is
required.
§ 91.12 INJURED ANIMALS; ANIMALS FOUND DEAD ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Any animal discovered injured or dead on a public way of this village
shall be impounded or picked up by an animal control officer.
   (B)   Seriously injured animals that are wearing village identification tags
will be taken to a doctor of veterinary medicine, who shall contact the owner
for treatment instructions and who shall maintain the animal, painlessly, if
possible, until instructions are received. The owner or keeper shall be
responsible for the costs of impoundment and treatment.
   (C)   Seriously injured animals which do not bear village identification
tags shall be impounded and authorized forthwith by a doctor of veterinary
medicine to avoid unnecessary suffering to the animal.
   (D)   Injured animals wearing village identification tags shall be released
to the pound within 48 hours if the owner cannot be contacted and treatment is
completed, or if the animal requires treatment beyond the minimization of
suffering or pain, the treatment to be provided at the owner’s or keeper’s
expense.
   (E)   No animal will be released by a veterinarian from impoundment to the
owner or keeper following treatment of an injury until a release is received
from the village showing payment of impoundment fees.
DOG INOCULATION; LICENSING
§ 91.15 INOCULATION OF DOGS; INOCULATION TAG AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year, or at intervals as may hereafter be promulgated by
the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog which is four
months of age or older shall cause the dog to be inoculated against rabies.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of the dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing the inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog at all times.
§ 91.16 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; I SSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The inoculation of dogs required by this subchapter shall be performed
by a veterinarian, duly licensed to practice in this state or in the state in
which the inoculation was performed. On performing the inoculation, the
veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate of that fact.
   (B)   Each owner or keeper is responsible for obtaining annually from the
County Clerk a metallic tag suitable for attaching to the collar of the dog
which tag shall also certify to the fact of inoculation against rabies. The tag
shall be in a form as shall be determined by the Department of Agriculture and
adopted for use by the County Clerk.
§ 91.17 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
91.15 above shall be effective until the expiration of a calendar year after
the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may
be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
§ 91.18 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE ON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time on request of any member of the Police Department or
Animal Control Officer, the owner or keeper of any dog shall exhibit any
current, valid certificate, required under the provisions of this chapter,
certifying the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or kept by him or
her.
§ 91.19 VILLAGE IDENTIFICATION TAG; DOG TAX.
   (A)   In addition to the inoculation tag required by §
91.15 above, every calendar year each owner of each dog over four months of age
shall obtain from the Village Hall a serially numbered identification tag and
pay a dog tax of $3 per dog which is hereby imposed.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue the tag in the form prescribed by the
President and Board of Trustees to an owner only upon receipt of:
      (1)   A signed application in the form prescribed by the Clerk containing
the name, address, and telephone number of the owner and the name, if any, of
the dog;
      (2)   A valid certificate of rabies inoculation showing an inoculation
effective for the entire calendar year; and
      (3)   A dog tax of $3.
   (C)   The Clerk shall maintain a list of all outstanding dog tags, which
shall include the name, address and phone number of each owner corresponding to
each tag and the date of issuance of each tag. The Clerk shall provide the
Chief of Police with a copy of the list.
   (D)   In years subsequent to issuance of the initial tag for any dog at the
request of the owner, the Clerk shall renew the tag rather than issue a new
tag, upon receipt of the documentation set forth in division (B) of this
section and the dog tax of $3.
   (E)   The owner or keeper of each dog shall cause the village identification
tag to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the dog at all times.
   (F)   Should a village identification tag be lost during a year of which the
dog tax has been paid, the Clerk shall reissue the tag for the remainder of the
year upon payment of $.50.
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.30 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any way interfere with any person who is known to the
person to be or who identifies himself to be and is, in fact, a village
employee or officer enforcing the provisions of this chapter or engaged in
catching or impounding any animal under the authority of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND ANIMALS AND ENTER ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the employees and officers of the Police
Department to take up and impound in the county animal pound, or other place as
designated by the Chief of Police, any animal found at large or any dog found
in the village without identification, inoculation, or licensing tags contrary
to any of the provisions of this chapter, or statutes of the state.
   (B)   The employees and officers of the Police Department are authorized to
go on private property in order to enforce this chapter or to take up any
animal which is found at large or to take up any dog found without required
inoculation, licensing, or identification tags; however, the persons may not
enter a private dwelling house for this purpose without a valid warrant or the
consent of the occupant.
§ 91.32 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any animal, whether under restraint or not, which has bitten or
otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be
immediately taken by the Police Department, impounded, and kept separated from
other animals for ten days. The victim of the bite shall notify the Police
Department of the bite within 24 hours. If, during that period, the animal
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall diagnose its condition. If
the symptoms disclose or are such as to indicate the presence of rabies, the
animal shall be destroyed in such manner as to preserve intact the head, which
shall be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic laboratory of the
Department of Agriculture. In case the animal cannot be safely taken up and
impounded, it may be killed, care being taken to preserve the head intact,
which shall be detached and immediately delivered to the diagnostic laboratory
of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the period of ten days, no symptoms of rabies
have developed in the animal so impounded, the animal may be redeemed by the
owner or keeper on payment of the redemption fees and charges specified in this
chapter.
   (C)   After having been notified that his or her animal has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not under any
circumstances permit the animal to be outside of his or her premises except on
a leash with a responsible adult until the procedures prescribed in divisions
(A) and (B) of this section have been completed.
§ 91.33 NOTICE TO OWNERS OR KEEPERS OF IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION.
   The Police Department shall notify the owners or keepers of animals
impounded pursuant to this chapter, if known to them, of the fact of
impoundment.
§ 91.34 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except any
that may have bitten any person, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held until
it may be disposed of pursuant to §
91.33 in order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to redeem
the same.
   (B)   Any owner or keeper desiring to redeem an impounded animal shall pay
an impoundment fee of $25 per animal to the village (and in addition, any
charges imposed by the county pound for keeping the animal while impounded);
however, one-half of the village impoundment fee shall be waived the first time
a dog of a particular owner is redeemed. For the purpose of this section, the
owner of an animal shall be entitled to the reduced impoundment fee once during
every three-year period.
   (C)   The impoundment fee shall be paid by the owner or keeper at the
Village Hall. The fees for the cost of keeping the dog, plus any additional fee
for inoculation, shall be paid at the county animal pound.
§ 91.35 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   Any dog or other animal, except animals bearing owner identification or
inoculation tags, impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, which
has not been redeemed within three working days shall be humanely destroyed or
otherwise disposed of by the director of the county animal pound. Any dog with
owner identification tags, which is impounded pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter and which shall not be redeemed within seven working days shall be
humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the director of the county
animal pound.
§ 91.36 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS TO PERSONS IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Village police officers and others specifically designated by the
Chief of Police are authorized to issue citations on a reasonable belief that
any person has violated any provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Citations shall be issued on forms approved by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Citations shall be issued personally to the violator, left with a
responsible family member of at least 13 years of age at the home of the
violator, or mailed to the residence of the violator.
   (D)   Persons issuing citations shall ensure that a copy of the citation is
filed at the Village Hall as soon as practical after issuance of the citation.
§ 91.37 HEARINGS ON CITATIONS.
   (A)   Appearance. On receipt of any citation as provided for in §
91.35, the recipient shall appear at the Village Hall within ten working days
from receipt of service of the citation. Each recipient of a citation shall
enter one of the following appearances:
      (1)   Admit. The allegations are substantially true.
      (2)   Deny. The allegations are substantially false.
      (3)   Admit with explanation. The allegations are substantially true but
additional factors should be considered.
   (B)   Hearings. For all persons who enter an appearance of deny or admit
with explanation, a hearing shall be scheduled by the Village President, who
shall act as the hearing officer. The hearing shall be held within ten working
days of the entry of appearance. No formal rules of evidence shall apply, and
all relevant evidence shall be considered in reaching a determination by the
hearing officer. A record of each decision shall be rendered and available for
review. Should the hearing officer decide that the violation occurred by a
preponderance of the available evidence, the amount then owing (which shall
include a fine plus any impoundment fees) will be determined by the date of the
request for the hearing.
   (C)   Action on failure to appear. Should the recipient of a citation fail
to appear or comply with the provisions of this section, or fail to pay within
five days the amount deemed due and owing by the hearing officer, a complaint
may be filed in accordance with §
91.38. In addition, should an animal owned by a person who has failed to appear
or comply with the hearing process for any citation be impounded, it shall not
be released until payment or arrangements for payment of all previous citations
is made as well as the impoundment fees due for that impoundment.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 PAYMENT TO AVOID PROSECUTION.
   (A)   On receipt of a citation alleging a violation of any section of this
chapter, the violator may pay one-half of the minimum fine provided in this
chapter at the Village Hall, provided that this amount is paid with ten working
days of issuance of the citation.
   (B)   After ten working days of the issuance of a citation, the full minimum
fine applicable to the violation must be paid to avoid prosecution.
§ 91.39 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   After ten working days have elapsed from the date of the issuance of a
citation authorized by this chapter, the Village Board may in its discretion
direct the Village Attorney to file a complaint and prosecute the alleged
violation in the Circuit Court, if the recipient has failed to appear in
accordance with §
91.36 or if the recipient fails to comply with any portion of the hearing
procedures.
   (B)   In any case where the Village Board believes that the administrative
processing of a citation will be unproductive in preventing repeated
violations, the provisions §§
91.36 and
91.37 of may be omitted in an individual case. A complaint shall then be filed
in the Circuit Court and shall be subject to the full range of penalties
including injunctive relief.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found by the hearing officer or convicted by the Circuit Court of
violating any provision at this chapter for which another penalty is not
provided shall, in addition to any boarding costs required herein, be fined as
follows:
   (A)   For a violation for §
91.19 relating to a village identification tag: $10 for the first offense and
not less than $10 nor more than $100 for any subsequent offense;
   (B)   For violation of any other section of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided: $25 for the first offense, and not less than $25 nor
more than $200 for any subsequent offense.
CHAPTER 92: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER PROGRAM
Section
   
92.01   Authority to establish Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
92.02   Mobile support team
   
92.03   Disaster emergency
   
92.04   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
92.05   Purchases and expenditures; reimbursement by state
   
92.06   Appropriations
§ 92.01 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY.
   (A)   If the village is required to do so by the state, there shall be
created the Village Emergency and Disaster Agency to prevent, minimize, repair,
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster, in
accordance with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act of 1988, 20 ILCS
3305/1 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   This Agency shall consist of the Coordinator and any additional
members as may be selected by the Coordinator.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall be appointed by the Village President and shall
serve until removed by same.
      (1)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training, and operations of the Agency, subject
to the direction and control of the Village President as provided by statute.
      (2)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to
serve as the Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him
or her, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as
provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Agency
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
      “I,                  , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the United
States and the constitution of the state of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign or domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I ever been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during
such time I am affiliated with this ESDA organization, I will not be a member
of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this state by force or violence.”
   (E)   Members of the Agency who are paid employees or officers of the
village, if training is called for by the state director of EMA, shall receive
for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the
position held. Members who are not such village employees or officers shall
receive for the training time compensation as may be established by the Village
President.
   (F)   The Agency shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as
shall be prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and the orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform the duties outside the corporate limits
as may be pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, village, or quasi-village entered into as provided in the state
EMA Act of 1988, as amended.
   (G)   The Village President is authorized to designate space in the village
hall, or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village President for the
Agency as its office.
§ 92.02 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
organization may be designated as members of a mobile support team created by
the director of the state EMA as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of the mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the ESDA organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the state director,
shall receive compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and immunities
incident to the employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer
or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law.
§ 92.03 DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency to cooperate fully with the state EMA and with the
Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
§ 92.04 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency may negotiate
mutual aid agreements with other cities or political subdivisions of the state;
but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the
Village President, County Coordinator, and by the state director of EMA.
§ 92.05 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES; REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   (A)   (1)   The Village President may, on recommendation of the Coordinator
of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, authorize any purchase of
contracts necessary to place the village in a position to combat effectively
any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or
missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect property, and
provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of the disaster, or from
manmade or natural disaster.
      (2)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the Coordinator of
EMA is authorized, on behalf of the village to procure the services, supplies,
equipment, or material as may be necessary for the purposes, in view of the
exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as authorized
by the state EMA Act of 1988, as amended.
   (B)   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund,
any reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency as prescribed by the
state director of EMA, compensation for services and expenses of members of a
mobile support team while serving outside the village in response to a call by
the Governor or state director, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement
made by the state incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
§ 92.06 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Village Board may make an appropriation for Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency purposes in the manner provided by law.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Sale, use, or explosion prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Violations; searches and seizures
   
93.04   Exemption
Fire Prevention
   
93.15   Fire prevention code adopted
   
93.16   Storage and use of volatile combustibles
Open Burning
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Prohibitions
   
93.32   Exemptions
   
93.33   Burning of leaves on public property prohibited
   
93.34   Permit required for burning on construction or demolition sites
   
93.35   Constant attention to open fires required
   
93.36   Garden hose or fire extinguishment devices required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Products
Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and 1507, and
classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States Department of
Transportation under 49 C.F.R. 172.101. CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall not include
snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as “party
poppers,” “booby traps,” “snappers,” “trick matches,” “cigarette loads,” and
“auto burglar alarms;” sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains
or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that
the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion;
and toy pistol paper or plastic caps that contain less than twenty hundredths
grains of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at
all times.
(425 ILCS 35/1)
§ 93.02 SALE, USE, OR EXPLOSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, co-partnership, or corporation to knowingly possess, offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks; provided that
the President and Board of Trustees shall have power to adopt reasonable rules
and regulations for the granting of permits for supervised public displays of
fireworks. Every such display shall be handled by a competent individual who is
licensed as a lead pyrotechnic operator. Application for permits shall be made
in writing at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display and action
shall be taken on such application within 48 hours after the application is
made. After the privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use, and
distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose
only. No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
   (B)   Permits may be granted hereunder to any groups of three or more adult
individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be required, under the
provisions of this section, for supervised public displays by state or county
fair associations.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall require proof of insurance from the permit
applicant in the sum not less than $1,000,000 conditioned on compliance with
the provisions of this section and the regulations of the State Fire Marshal;
however, the village shall not be required to provide evidence of insurance.
   (D)   This permit shall be issued only after inspection of the display site
by the Village President or other authorized village official, to determine
that the display shall be in full compliance with the rules of the State Fire
Marshal, which shall be based upon nationally recognized standards such as
those of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 guidelines for
outdoor displays and NFPA 1126 guidelines for indoor displays, and shall not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the issuer of the permit from adopting more stringent
rules. The President shall consult with local fire protection authorities
before issuing the permit.
   (E)   All indoor pyrotechnic displays shall be conducted in buildings
protected by automatic sprinkler systems.
   (F)   The Chief of the Fire Department providing fire protection coverage to
the area of display, or his or her designee, shall sign the permit.
   (G)   Possession by any party holding a certificate of registration under
425 ILCS 30/1 et seq. or by any employee or agent of the party or by any person
transporting fireworks for the party, shall not be a violation, provided the
possession is within the scope of business of the fireworks plant registered
under those statutes.
(425 ILCS 35/2) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate fireworks, see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
§ 93.03 VIOLATIONS; SEARCHES AND SEIZURES.
   Whenever the President or any member of the Board of Trustees has reason to
believe that any violation of this subchapter has occurred within the village
and that the person so violating this subchapter has in his or her possession
fireworks or combustibles, the President or the Trustee may file a complaint in
writing, verified by affidavit, with any circuit court within whose
jurisdiction the premises to be searched are situated, stating the facts upon
which the belief is founded, the premises to be searched, and the property to
be seized, and procure a search warrant and execute the same. Upon the
execution of the search warrant, the person executing the same shall make due
return thereof to the court issuing the same, together with an inventory of the
property taken thereunder. The court shall thereupon issue process against the
owner of the property if he or she be known, otherwise against the party in
whose possession the property so taken was found, if known. In case of
inability to serve the process upon the owner or the person in possession of
the property at the time of its seizure, as hereinbefore provided, notice of
the proceedings before the court shall be given as required by the statutes of
the state governing cases of attachment. Upon the return of the process duly
served or upon the posting or publishing of notice made, as hereinabove
provided, the court or jury, if a jury shall be demanded, shall proceed to
determine whether or not the property so seized was held or possessed in
violation of this subchapter. In case of a finding that the fireworks or
combustibles seized were possessed in violation of this subchapter, judgment
shall be entered confiscating and forfeiting the property and ordering its
destruction.
(425 ILCS 35/4)
§ 93.04 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as applying to the
transportation of any article or thing shipped in conformity with the
regulations prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission, nor as applying
to the military or naval forces of the United States, nor to the duly
authorized militia of the state, nor to the use of signals necessary for the
safe operation of railroads, steamboats, trucks, or aircraft.
(425 ILCS 30/23)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.15 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   All construction, operation, and maintenance of buildings and structures in
the village shall conform with the applicable provisions of the fire code or
fire prevention code adopted from time to time by the village and set forth in
Title XVII of this code.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of codes by reference, see 65 ILCS 5/1-3-1 and 1-3-2 and 50 ILCS
220/2
§ 93.16 STORAGE AND USE OF VOLATILE COMBUSTIBLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation to
keep, store, transport, sell, or use any crude petroleum, benzine, benzol,
gasoline, naphtha, ether or other like volatile combustibles, or other
compounds, in such manner or under such circumstances as will jeopardize life
or property.
(430 ILCS 15/1) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate storage of combustible or explosive material,
see 65 ILCS 5/11-8-4
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTES. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and landscape
wastes.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air.
   RESTRICTED AREAS. The area within the boundaries of the village, unless the
area is 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas.
§ 93.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in §
93.32 below.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
chamber or apparatus, unless the chamber or apparatus is designed for the
purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are not in violation of this subchapter unless they
cause air pollution as defined in state statutes or regulations of the State
Environmental Protection Agency:
   (A)   The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      (1)   On the premises on which the waste is generated;
      (2)   In areas other than restricted areas;
      (3)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
      (4)   If the burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
      (5)   More than 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas; and
      (6)   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   (B)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official;
   (C)   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and
cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where the burning is
consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned in these
cases;
   (D)   The burning of waste gases provided that in the case of refineries all
such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution;
   (E)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like; and
   (F)   Burning of leaves:
      (1)   Outdoor leaf burning shall be allowed only in containers located
not less than 20 feet from any building or structure on private property only,
except that the village may conduct such outdoor leaf burning on publicly owned
property, which burning shall be supervised by an officer or employee of the
village and in compliance with the requirements set forth herein.
      (2)   Outdoor leaf burning shall include only leaves fallen from trees,
plants, and shrubs and shall not include burning of any trash, garbage, or
other disposables or any other materials of any nature whatsoever.
      (3)   Outdoor leaf burning which is permitted under this division may be
prohibited at any time when, in the opinion of the appropriate and proper
official of the village or of the state Environmental Protection Agency,
atmospheric conditions are such that open leaf burning would prove harmful to
the health of the citizens of the village.
§ 93.33 BURNING OF LEAVES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn leaves or any other material on a street, gutter, curb
or sidewalk owned by the village.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BURNING ON CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION SITES.
   During the construction or demolition of buildings or other structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without a permit or other proper authorization.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.35 CONSTANT ATTENTION TO OPEN FIRES REQUIRED.
   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person not less than
18 years of age.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 GARDEN HOSE OR FIRE EXTINGUISHMENT DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishment
equipment must be readily available for use within ten feet of any open fires.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall be fined not more than $750 for each offense.
Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §§
93.30 through
93.36 shall be punishable by a fine as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $30;
         (b)   Second offense: $50;
         (c)   Third offense: $100; and
         (d)   Subsequent offenses: Not less than $100 nor more than $500.
      (2)   To avoid prosecution for a first, second, or third offense under §§
93.30 through
93.36, a violator may within ten days of receiving a citation settle the
citation by payment of one-half of the specified fine at the Village Hall. The
Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to cease prosecution of any
citation so settled.
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Duty to keep premises clean
   
94.02   Placing offensive matter on property
   
94.03   Discharge of offensive matter; offensive cesspools
   
94.04   Privies
   
94.05   Obstructing water or drainage
   
94.06   Storing new and used lumber
   
94.07   Poisonous plants
   
94.08   Planting certain trees near sewers prohibited
Enforcement
   
94.20   Public health violation ticket
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to promote health and suppress disease, see 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DUTY TO KEEP PREMISES CLEAN.
   The owner or occupant of every lot or building, or any appurtenances
thereof, shall keep every part thereof free from filth or anything offensive
which is likely to contribute to disease or infection. Upon the owner’s or
occupant’s failure to do so, it is made the duty of the Chief of Police, upon
complaint, immediately to give notice to the owner or occupant thereof, and
require him or her to act as necessary for the health of the village.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PLACING OFFENSIVE MATTER ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit or place upon any lot, street, avenue, or alley
within the village, and no person owning a lot in the village shall permit to
be deposited or placed on the lot any offensive substances, old fruit,
vegetables, or meat cans, boxes, old barrels, decayed fruit, manure, kitchen
waste, or anything that gives forth any disagreeable or noisome odor or which
is otherwise prejudicial to the public health.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 DISCHARGE OF OFFENSIVE MATTER; OFFENSIVE CESSPOOLS.
   No person within the village shall place, throw, or permit to be discharged
or to flow from or out of any house or premises any filthy, foul, or offensive
matter or liquid of any kind into any street, alley, or public place or upon
any lot or ground, or allow or permit this to be done by any person connected
with the premises under his or her control, or shall allow or permit the
contents of any vault, privy, or cesspool to rise within less than two feet of
the top thereof.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PRIVIES.
   No person shall build, maintain, or use any privy or privy vault within the
village.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 OBSTRUCTING WATER OR DRAINAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in any street, gutter, or public sewer, culvert, water pipe, hydrant, or
watercourse within the village.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 STORING NEW AND USED LUMBER.
   (A)   All lumber, used or new, shall be stacked in piles at least one foot
above the ground and each stack thereof shall not be more than six feet in
width; nor shall the top thereof be more than six feet above the ground. In no
case shall the stacks of lumber be closer than 30 inches.
   (B)   All new and used lumber shall be stacked or stored in a manner to be
free of rats, mice, termites, and rodents. No lumber shall be stacked or stored
in a manner as to be dangerous to anyone in the immediate vicinity thereof.
   (C)   This shall apply only to that new or used lumber stacked or stored
outside a building or warehouse. No lumber to which any metal object is
attached shall be stacked or stored outside a building.
§ 94.07 POISONOUS PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any poison ivy or other
poisonous vine or plant within this village so near any public sidewalk,
street, or alley as to injuriously affect passers-by, or to permit any
poisonous vine or plant to so grow in or upon any premises owned or controlled
by him or her.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PLANTING CERTAIN TREES NEAR SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any poplar or cottonwood tree
on any private property in the village, the point of the planting of which
shall be within 45 feet of any public sewer, drain, or water pipe.
Penalty, see §
94.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.20 PUBLIC HEALTH VIOLATION TICKET.
   (A)   The authorized village officer shall have the authority to issue a
public health violation ticket to any person who shall violate the provisions
of this chapter or the provisions of
Chapter 96.
   (B)   The public health violation ticket is a notice to the recipient of the
ticket to correct the named violation.
   (C)   The violation shall be corrected within ten days or a lesser time as
stated in the section cited by the owner or the occupant of the premises on
which the violation has occurred. Where a violation constitutes an emergency
health hazard, the violation shall be corrected within 24 hours by the owner or
occupant of the premises on which the violation has occurred. However, in the
case of an emergency health hazard, the authorized village official may correct
or have the violation corrected on its behalf without first issuing a public
health violation ticket or without waiting 24 hours after the issuance of a
public health violation ticket. In all cases it shall be the ultimate
responsibility of the owner of the premises on which the violation exists to
correct the violation.
   (D)   The public health violation ticket shall contain the name and address
of the violator, the location of the violation, a statement of the violation,
including the specific section of the code being violated, a statement that the
violation shall be corrected within the time specified in the public health
violation ticket, a statement that failure to correct the violation complained
of within the time stated on the ticket may result in the village itself
correcting the violation or the filing of an ordinance violation that may
result, upon conviction, in a fine not exceeding $500 each day the violation
continues, or both.
   (E)   Service of the public health violation ticket shall be made in the
following manner:
      (1)   The original shall be served on the violator either by personal
delivery or by the regular mail. The authorized village official shall certify
that he or she delivered the ticket personally to the violator or mailed the
ticket by regular mail to the violator.
      (2)   One copy shall be retained by the authorized village official.
   (F)   Any person who is issued a public health violation ticket and does not
correct the violation within the time limit specified therein shall be subject
to the penalties provided in §
94.99.
   (G)   In no situation shall the ticket enforcement procedure preclude the
village from enforcing public health violations through any other available
remedies provided by this code, state or federal statute, or common law.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter or fail to
comply with any notice given by the authorized village official as provided in
§
94.20 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $750
for each violation. Each day during which a violation continues beyond the
specified time for correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
   (B)   If the village corrects the violation itself or causes the violation
to be corrected on its behalf, a lien for the amount of time and expense
involved in correcting the violation shall be filed against the land where the
violation occurred unless the owner or occupant of that land shall reimburse
the village its expenses upon request. A minimum charge of $100 for each hour,
or part of an hour, shall be levied for work performed by or on behalf of the
village in correcting a violation. The lien shall be recorded with the County
Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the work is performed by the village or
on behalf of the village, and foreclosure suit to collect the cost of the lien
shall be filed within two years after the recordation of the lien as in the
case of foreclosure.
   (C)   If the village corrects the violation itself or causes the violation
to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall nevertheless be subject to
the above specified fine, in addition to a lien being placed on the violator’s
property.
CHAPTER 95: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Loud and unnecessary noises prohibited; enumeration
   
95.02   Blowing horns
   
95.03   Drums and loudspeakers
   
95.04   Radios and phonographs
   
95.05   Vehicle noise
   
95.06   Devices using compressed air
   
95.07   Exhaust discharge
   
95.08   Building operations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED; ENUMERATION.
   The creation of an unreasonably loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noise in
the village is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity, and duration as
to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited. The
acts provided in this chapter, among others, are declared to be loud,
disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 BLOWING HORNS.
   The sounding or blowing of any horn or any signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a signal if
another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion only
as a danger signal; the creation by means of any signal of any reasonably loud
or harsh sound; and the sounding of the device for any unnecessary or
unreasonable period of time shall be prohibited.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 DRUMS AND LOUDSPEAKERS.
   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show,
sale, display, or advertisement of merchandise shall be prohibited.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 RADIOS AND PHONOGRAPHS.
   (A)   The outdoor use of radios, phonographs, and the like shall be
prohibited in the following incidents:
      (1)   The operation of a juke box, radio, phonograph, television, or
other instrument of like nature, with or without a transmitter or amplifier, so
that the music or information produced by the instrument shall be discharged
into the open or outside of any building;
      (2)   The use of any out-of-door amplifier; and
      (3)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television, or any musical
instrument in such a manner as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or
repose of any persons in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence.
   (B)   However, the broadcasting of events occurring in any athletic contest
of the village, the broadcasting of a band concert produced by live
participants in the village, or the broadcasting of any music, chimes, or bells
by any church shall not be included in the foregoing designations.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 VEHICLE NOISE.
   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded, or in any condition that creates loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, screeching of tires, or other noise, shall be prohibited.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DEVICES USING COMPRESSED AIR.
   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air shall be
prohibited, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 EXHAUST DISCHARGE.
   The discharge in the open air of the exhaust of a steam engine, stationary
internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle shall be prohibited, except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent noises
therefrom.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 BUILDING OPERATIONS.
   The erection (including excavations), demolition, alteration, or repair of
any building in a residential or business district other than between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays shall be prohibited, except in case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit
from the President, which permit shall be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not more than $750 for each and every
violation thereof. Every day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Enumeration of particular nuisances
   
96.02   Enumeration not exclusive
   
96.03   Nuisances to be removed
Plants and Weeds
   
96.15   Weeds declared to be nuisance
   
96.16   Plant height restrictions; parkway maintenance standards
   
96.17   Removal notice
   
96.18   Abatement of nuisance
   
96.19   Lien procedures
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 ENUMERATION OF PARTICULAR NUISANCES.
   The presence of the following within the village is declared to be
detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare and constitutes a
nuisance:
   (A)   Sound, animals, or things which interfere with the peace or comfort or
disturb the quiet enjoyment of any person in the village;
   (B)   Anything which is made, permitted, used, kept, maintained, operated,
or any building or any animal that is kept in a manner which is offensive,
nauseous, dangerous to life, limb, or property, or detrimental to the health of
the persons residing in that area;
   (C)   Any filthy, foul, or offensive matter or liquid of any kind discharged
into any street, alley, or public place, or on any adjacent lot or ground;
   (D)   Any lot, ground, or premises, within the village, on which stagnant
water may be standing so as to become or likely to become foul, putrid,
offensive, or detrimental to the health and comfort of persons residing in the
vicinity thereof;
   (E)   The emission of dense smoke from the chimney or smokestack of any
building or premises or from any garbage or rubbish container;
   (F)   Any spoiled, tainted, or diseased perishable agricultural commodity;
   (G)   The presence of brush, weeds, dead, or dying trees, stumps, roots, any
abandoned or inoperable vehicle or waste material, on land within the village;
and
   (H)   In addition to what is herein declared to be a nuisance, those
offenses known to the common law or of the state or federal statutes as
nuisances may, in case the same exist within the village, be treated as such
and proceeded against as provided in this chapter.
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The various nuisances described and enumerated in this chapter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by this code.
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to define, prevent, and abate nuisances, see 65 ILCS 5/11-
60-2
§ 96.03 NUISANCES TO BE REMOVED.
   Any person causing a nuisance, as defined in this code, and the owner,
occupant, or lessee of land on which any nuisance exists, are required to
correct the nuisance. The correction shall be made within the time limit
enumerated in the notice of violation from the village. In all cases it shall
be the ultimate responsibility of the owner of the premises on which a nuisance
exists to correct the nuisance.
Cross-reference:
   Public health violation ticket, see
Ch. 94
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 96.15 WEEDS DECLARED TO BE NUISANCE.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr, wild
lettuce, or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of
land in the village are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
§ 96.16 PLANT HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; PARKWAY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any such plants or weeds
exceeding this height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The owners of property abutting any public streets, roads, or ways
shall maintain the area between the edge of pavement or curb and their property
line, commonly known as parkway, in a neat, clean, and orderly condition and
free of any weeds, grass, or plants in excess of five inches in height, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants.
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 REMOVAL NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to serve or cause to be served a
notice by registered mail to the last known address upon the owner or occupant
of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance
within five days.
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   If the person served by the notice required by §
96.17 above does not abate the nuisance within five days, the village may
proceed to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expanse of the
abatement, and the expense shall be charged and paid by the owner or occupant.
§ 96.19 LIEN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided
by state statutes. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid 60 days
after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder
of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the village claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the bill for weed
cutting shall be mailed to the owner of the premises whenever the bill remains
unpaid for a period of 60 days after it has been rendered. The failure of the
Village Clerk to record the lien claim or to mail the notice, or the failure of
the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien, for unpaid bills for weed cutting, as provided for in the following
provisions.
   (B)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied
to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. These foreclosures shall be by bill in equity in the name of
the village.
   (C)   The Village Attorney shall institute proceedings authorized by
division (B) above, in the name of the village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matter when so directed by resolution of the Village
Board.
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a greater or lesser penalty is prescribed elsewhere in this
code of ordinances, any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter
shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $750 for each
violation. Each day during which a violation continues beyond the specified
time for correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
   (B)   If the village corrects the violation or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, the violator or shall be liable to the village for its
actual costs (material plus labor, or if the correction is contracted out, the
contract price) of abating the nuisance.
   (C)   Where the village itself corrects the violation or causes the
violation to be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be subject to both
division (A) and (B) of this section.
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
In General
   
97.001   Definitions
   
97.002   Injuring sidewalks and curbstones
   
97.003   Sidewalks to be kept free from snow and ice
   
97.004   Throwing or placing garbage on streets and sidewalks
   
97.005   Leaving cellar door, basement entrance, vault open
   
97.006   Sidewalks constituting nuisances
   
97.007   Permitting water from roofs to fall on sidewalks
Obstructions and Encroachments
   
97.015   Unauthorized obstruction or encumbrances
   
97.016   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
97.017   Forms of application and permit
   
97.018   Fees
   
97.019   Receiving or delivering merchandise on sidewalks
   
97.020   Storage of personal property
   
97.021   Railroad obstructing street
Excavations
   
97.030   Permit required
   
97.031   Permit fee
   
97.032   Payment of estimated cost of restoration before issuance of permit;
division of responsibility
   
97.033   Bond or insurance policy required
   
97.034   Supervision and inspection of work
   
97.035   Cutting new pavements
   
97.036   Return of surplus payment on completion of work
   
97.037   Lights and barricades
   
97.038   Openings in sidewalks
   
97.039   Restrictions as to open cellar ways
Construction of Sidewalks
   
97.050   Grade
   
97.051   Specifications
   
97.052   Cost of construction
   
97.053   No part to be taken for private use
Private Driveways
   
97.065   Permit required; application; accompanied by plat or sketch
   
97.066   Permit to be denied if traffic or safety hazard would result
   
97.067   Permit fee
   
97.068   Existing driveways causing soil erosion or overloading sewers
   
97.069   Regulations concerning curbing
Moving Buildings
   
97.080   Permit required
   
97.081   Approval; fee
   
97.082   Bond
   
97.083   Requirements
 
   
97.999   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 97.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, parkway, boulevard, drive, lane, road,
bridge, viaduct, highway, parkway, circle, cul-de-sac, court, place, alley, or
any other public way designated for vehicles by the village.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, on, driven on, ridden on, or drawn on any street.
§ 97.002 INJURING SIDEWALKS AND CURBSTONES.
   No person shall, within the village, cut, mar, deface, or in any way break
or disfigure any sidewalk or curbstone or part thereof, except as authorized by
the Street Superintendent as provided in this chapter.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.003 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM SNOW AND ICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the village abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.004 THROWING OR PLACING GARBAGE ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall throw, place, leave, cause, or permit to be thrown, placed,
or left any filth, rubbish, or garbage in or on any street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public ground in front of or adjoining any building or premises owned or
occupied by the person or subject to his or her control, except in approved
containers or receptacles.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.005 LEAVING CELLAR DOOR, BASEMENT ENTRANCE, VAULT OPEN.
   No person shall leave open or permit to be left open any cellar door,
basement entrance, vault, cistern, well, ditch, or other like pit or hole, on
or adjoining any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground, without
securing or protecting the same, so as not to endanger the safety of persons or
animals passing thereby from falling therein. The person shall be liable for
all damages or injuries to persons or property arising from any such neglect,
and for any damage that may be recovered against the village in consequence
thereof.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.006 SIDEWALKS CONSTITUTING NUISANCES.
   Every sidewalk which is so worn or out of repair as to endanger the safety
of persons passing over the same, is declared to be a nuisance. No person shall
hereafter suffer or permit the nuisance to exist in front of or adjoining
premises owned or occupied by him or her. The owner of any property in front of
or adjoining a village sidewalk shall be liable for all damages or injuries to
persons or property arising from permitting or suffering a nuisance to exist
thereon and any damage that may be recovered against the village in consequence
thereof.
Penalty, see §
97.999
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 96
§ 97.007 PERMITTING WATER FROM ROOFS TO FALL ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall suffer or permit the water falling or draining from the roof
of any building owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her, to spread over
the sidewalk in front of same.
Penalty, see §
97.999
OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
§ 97.015 UNAUTHORIZED OBSTRUCTION OR ENCUMBRANCES.
   (A)   No person shall place, throw, or leave, or cause to be placed, thrown,
or left any obstruction or encumbrance in or on any street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public ground, except as authorized by this chapter or other ordinance.
   (B)   Any person who shall place or leave, or cause to be placed or left,
any encroachment, obstruction, or encumbrance in or on any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public ground shall in all cases be liable to the village
and to private persons for all injury or damages arising therefrom.
Penalty, see §
97.999
Statutory reference:
   State law as to power of village to prevent and remove obstructions on
streets, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-3
§ 97.016 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No contractor, builder, or other person shall encumber or obstruct any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground or portion thereof in the
village with barricades, parking meter covers, temporary structures, tool
sheds, office or tool trailers or shanties, building materials, or any other
foreign materials which may impede or obstruct traffic or public use of a
public way unless the contractor, builder, or other person shall have filed
with the Clerk an application for a permit setting forth, among other things,
the purpose, the period, and extent of the use desired to be made of the public
way, and shall have paid the proper fees. Anyone who obtains such a permit and
encumbers or obstructs any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground or
portion thereof, shall install sufficient barricades, flashing lights,
lanterns, channelizing devices, and warning signs. Should the permit also
authorize blockade of curb parking, the permittee shall obtain from the
appropriate village officer appropriate materials to mount on the parking
meters giving notice to the public that the meters have been taken out of
service and stating the duration thereof.
   (B)   This section shall not apply during emergency situations involving
health and safety. In these cases representatives of public utilities, the
Street Department, or any bonded contractor authorized by the Street Department
may proceed to correct the emergency situation. But in this case, all persons,
including village employees, shall give notice to the Police Department, Fire
Department, and Street Department prior to making the obstruction, which notice
shall specify the location and purpose thereof, and all persons including
village employees shall thereafter, on the next business day, comply with the
provisions of §§
97.016, 97.017, 97.032, and 97.033, and such other provisions of this chapter
as may be applicable.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.017 FORMS OF APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   The Clerk shall prepare application and permit forms which shall identify
the person seeking to obstruct the public way, the area sought to be
obstructed, purpose of the obstruction, duration of the period during which the
public way shall be obstructed, and if public parking on the public streets is
to be curtailed, the area of the street to be obstructed, the purpose thereof
and duration of period during which the interruption of public parking shall be
in effect.
§ 97.018 FEES.
   (A)   Permits issued for street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground
obstructions or to block curb parking shall be at the rates established by the
Board of Trustees as set forth in Title XVII of this Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   The fees herein provided for curtailment of curb parking shall be in
addition to any fee paid for street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground
obstruction permit, or for street or sidewalk opening permit under §§
97.030 through
97.039. However, no permit or fee shall be required or payable for street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public ground obstruction under this section in the
event that permit and fee for sidewalk, alley, street, or other public ground
opening is obtained and paid under §§
97.030 through
97.039.
§ 97.019 RECEIVING OR DELIVERING MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person while receiving or delivering goods, wares, or merchandise shall
permit the same to remain on any sidewalk longer than is necessary to convey
such goods, wares, or merchandise to or from the premises abutting on the
sidewalk or to or from which the goods, wares, or merchandise are being
delivered or received, and for this purpose he or she shall not occupy over
four feet of the outer edge of the sidewalk in front of his or her store or
building.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.020 STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   No street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground shall be used for the
storage of personal property, goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind or
description whatever. No person shall place or cause to be placed in or on any
street, alley, or sidewalk any barrel, box, crate, package, or other
obstruction of any kind or description whatsoever, and suffer the same to
remain thereon longer than is prescribed in §
97.019 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.021 RAILROAD OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   No railroad corporation nor its agent or employee shall block or
obstruct any street by stopping on the tracks any train, railroad car, or
locomotive engine for a period in excess of ten minutes, except when the train,
railroad car, or locomotive engine cannot be moved by reason of circumstances
over which the railroad corporation, its agent, or employee has no control.
   (B)   The village shall have authority to order in emergency situations,
that any train, railroad car, or locomotive engine be moved or separated to
permit passage over the tracks. Any railroad corporation, its agent, or
employee shall comply with this order.
   (C)   Any railroad corporation violating the provisions of this section
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each
offense, and any engineer or conductor causing an obstruction in violation of
the provisions of this section shall also be individually guilty of a violation
and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $200.
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.030 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall injure or tear up any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public ground, or any part thereof, dig any hole, ditch, or drain in, or dig or
remove any sod, stone, earth, sand, or gravel from, or dig, place, or construct
any tunnel or drive, or bore for any pipe conduit, wire main, or shaft in or
under any street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground in the village without
having first obtained written permission from the street department given in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or other ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   Excavations shall be made in accordance with §
97.032. Excavations greater than 50 feet in length will be removed in
accordance with §
97.032 and replaced by the applicant and inspected in accordance with §
97.034.
Penalty, see §
97.999
Statutory reference:
   State law as to power of village to regulate openings in streets for laying
water mains and sewers, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7
§ 97.031 PERMIT FEE.
   A fee of $10 shall be charged and collected for each permit issued for an
opening in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public ground.
§ 97.032 PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED COST OF RESTORATION BEFORE ISSUANCE OF PERMIT;
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   Before a permit shall be granted to any person to open any street, public
ground, roadway, sidewalk, or alley, for any purpose, that person shall pay to
the Clerk the estimated cost of restoring the same to as good a condition as
before it shall have been so opened, with a fair additional sum as margin for
unforeseen costs and damages, as determined by the Board of Trustees. The
permit applicant will remove the pavement in accordance with the specifications
of the street department, including providing barricades and on paved streets
sawing the pavement and providing, a six-inch lip of undisturbed soil on the
sides of the trench. The estimated cost determined by the Board of Trustees
shall include the cost to the village of inspecting any work done under the
permit, removing excavated materials after the person obtaining the permit has
made the excavation, backfilling all excavated areas, and restoring the same to
its original condition. When the excavation has been made and the utility
involved has been connected and inspected, the person making the excavation
shall notify the street department. The Street Department shall, within a
reasonable time thereafter, place around the opening, any barricade, flares,
and warning devices necessary for the protection of the public as required by §
97.016 and shall assume responsibility for the continuation of the work, and
shall notify the holder of the permit of the action.
§ 97.033 BOND OR INSURANCE POLICY REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person permitting or allowing the
obstruction, tearing up, removing, or repairing of any sidewalk, street, alley,
any other public place, or any part thereof, until the person making
application for the permit shall first have executed to the village a good and
sufficient bond in the amount of $5,000, with sureties to be approved by the
Board of Trustees, conditioned on that person agreeing: To indemnify, save, and
keep harmless the village from any and all loss, cost, damage, expense, or
liability of any kind whatsoever which the village may suffer or which may be
recovered against the village from or on account of the issuance of the permit
to obstruct, tear up, remove, or repair any sidewalk, street, alley, any other
public ground, or part thereof and from or on account of any act or thing done
by the permittee or permitted by the permittee and from or on account of any
negligence or omission of the permittee in the obstruction, tearing up,
removal, or repairing of any sidewalk, street, alley, any other public ground,
or part thereof.
   (B)   In the event any proposed work may appear to subject the village to
the possibility of any greater liability than $5,000 the Board of Trustees may
require the amount of the bond to be increased to an amount sufficient to
protect the village against any such loss, cost, damage, or expense.
   (C)   If any licensed plumber shall have given a licensed plumber’s bond to
the village, the bond shall be taken as a satisfaction of the requirements of
this section, except in cases where the Board of Trustees shall for cause
consider the amount thereof insufficient as provided in division (B) above.
§ 97.034 SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All work done under the authority of a permit under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be supervised and inspected by the Street Superintendent. This
supervision and inspection shall be done at the sole expense of the person
securing the permit.
§ 97.035 CUTTING NEW PAVEMENTS.
   Before any street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground shall be paved or
resurfaced, notice thereof shall be published by the Board of Trustees at least
three times in a newspaper of general circulation published in the village, 30
days or more prior thereto, and copies of the notice shall forthwith be
furnished to all public service corporations. Any wires, pipes, cables,
conduits, tunnels, and the like shall be laid and any other underground work
installed within 60 days after the giving of the notice. After the pavement or
resurfacing shall have been completed, it shall not be cut for any purpose or
by any person during the first year thereafter, unless there be paid in advance
treble the estimated cost of the restoration of the pavement as determined
under §
97.032, and during the third through fifth year thereafter double the estimated
cost thereof, and thereafter the estimated cost, provided, however, that only
the estimated cost of restoration need be paid if the cut was required for an
emergency repair as determined by the Street Department.
§ 97.036 RETURN OF SURPLUS PAYMENT ON COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After completion of the work under the provisions of this subchapter, the
Clerk shall certify to the Board of Trustees the amount of any surplus
remaining from the amount paid under §
97.032 after payment for the work done by the village, or the amount of any
surplus remaining from the amount paid under §
97.035 after payment of treble or double the cost of the work done by the
village, as therein required, and the surplus shall be paid over to the proper
claimant. If for any reason the amount of the payment shall be insufficient to
cover the cost of the work, or treble or double the cost of work done under §
97.035, or if any damage shall have been done to any underground work or
connections, or otherwise, not contemplated in the original estimate, which
shall have caused increased expenditure, the amount of the deficiency or damage
shall be certified to the Clerk, who shall collect the same from the person to
whom the permit was issued.
§ 97.037 LIGHTS AND BARRICADES.
   Any person who shall, under the provisions of this chapter or other
ordinances of the village, be allowed to make any excavation on any street,
alley, avenue, or sidewalk shall be required, as specified in §
97.016, to place and maintain such barricades, warning signs, and lights as may
be required by the village.
§ 97.038 OPENINGS IN SIDEWALKS.
   There shall be no permanent opening in any sidewalk, extending beyond the
property line, except such openings as are herein expressly authorized. There
may be an opening, providing it is covered with metal sidewalk trap doors. The
outer edge of the doors shall be within two feet of the outside edge of the
sidewalk curb, the inner edge of which shall not be more than seven feet from
the outer edge of the sidewalk curb. Every door shall be provided with metal
guards for the protection of the public when open and shall be flush with the
sidewalks when closed, including hinges. There may be openings through
sidewalks for the admittance of fuel. All openings in sidewalks shall have
metal or cement covers flush with the walk, and their upper surfaces shall be
roughened. All parts of sidewalks, including illuminating tile or other
structural parts, shall be capable of sustaining a load at all points
simultaneously equal to 400 pounds for each superficial foot of the surface
thereof. There shall be no permanent openings in the form of gratings of any
description in any sidewalk.
§ 97.039 RESTRICTIONS AS TO OPEN CELLAR WAYS.
   No open cellar or basement way shall be permitted in any sidewalk or alley,
nor shall the door or grating of any such closed cellar or basement way extend
above the grade of the sidewalk, nor exceeding one inch above the grade of the
alley, nor shall the hinges, locks, or other fastenings thereof, be placed on
the upper side of the same so as to project above the door. All cellar windows
in any sidewalk or alley shall be set or placed even with the grade of the
sidewalk or alley and be well secured with iron or other suitable gratings.
Penalty, see §
97.999
CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS
§ 97.050 GRADE.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent shall establish the grades for all
sidewalks, and the same shall conform, as nearly as may be possible to the
grades of their respective streets. Where no permanent grade is established,
the Street Superintendent may give a temporary grade.
   (B)   No person may construct or lay, or cause to be constructed or laid,
any sidewalk where no grade has been established by the Street Superintendent,
or contrary to any grade given by the Street Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.051 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks, curbs, and gutters shall be constructed in accordance with
specifications as established by the Board of Trustees and set forth in Title
XVII of this Code of Ordinances.
Statutory reference:
   State law as to power of the village to regulate construction and use of
sidewalks, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-13
§ 97.052 COST OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Where any owner of a lot or parcel of land adjoining any public street in
the village fails to construct a sidewalk along the lot or parcel of ground
when required to do so by ordinance, the village may construct the sidewalk and
collect the costs of the construction by special taxation, special assessment,
or any other method prescribed by law.
§ 97.053 NO PART TO BE TAKEN FOR PRIVATE USE.
   No part of any sidewalk shall be taken for private use by lowering, cutting
down, or elevating the same next to the building fronting thereon, or by
fencing or railing off the same, or otherwise shutting off the public from
using the same, except as authorized by the Board of Trustees.
PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS
§ 97.065 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ACCOMPANIED BY PLAT OR SKETCH.
   (A)   No person shall construct any private driveway entering on any public
street or alley within the village without having first obtained a permit
therefor from the Street Superintendent.
   (B)   An application for the permit shall be made to the Street
Superintendent showing the time, place, and character of the opening and the
purpose thereof.
   (C)   All sidewalks built under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
constructed in accordance with standards and material prescribed by the village
in Title XIII of this code of ordinances.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.066 PERMIT TO BE DENIED IF TRAFFIC OR SAFETY HAZARD WOULD RESULT.
   The Street Superintendent shall not issue any permit for any private
driveway or for breaking or for removing any street curbing where the proposed
opening would create an unnecessary hazard to pedestrians using any sidewalk
intersected by the driveway nor shall any permit be issued for a driveway in
excess of 35 feet in total width as measured from the appropriate right-of-way
lines, or where the proposed driveway would create a traffic hazard, or where
the proposed driveway would constitute a violation of the village zoning
ordinance.
§ 97.067 PERMIT FEE.
   A fee as established by the Board of Trustees and set forth in Title XVII of
this Code of Ordinances shall be charged and collected for each and every
permit issued for the construction of a private driveway.
§ 97.068 EXISTING DRIVEWAYS CAUSING SOIL EROSION OR OVERLOADING SEWERS.
   (A)   Wherever existing driveways shall be so constructed or maintained as
to cause soil erosion or to overload adjacent sewers, the Street Superintendent
shall on determination of the fact thereof, order the property owner using the
driveway to repair or reconstruct the same so as to prevent soil erosion or
overloading of adjacent sewers.
   (B)   The property owner using the driveway shall be given 60 days’ notice
in writing to make the necessary changes in the driveway.
   (C)   In the event that the property owner shall refuse to repair or
reconstruct the driveway within 60 days after notice, as provided in the
preceding section, the Street Superintendent shall block off the driveway so as
to prevent soil erosion and overloading of adjacent sewers.
§ 97.069 REGULATIONS CONCERNING CURBING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall have or maintain an entrance or driveway for
vehicles from the paved streets or street into his or her or their premises,
crossing the curbing.
      (2)   All the driveways from these streets into private premises shall be
made by putting in curbing on each side of the driveway, with rounded corners,
as at street intersections.
   (B)   All such driveways shall be constructed in accordance with standards
and material prescribed by the village.
Penalty, see §
97.999
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 97.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building on, through, or over any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place in the village without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the Village Board of Trustees. Applications for these permits
shall be made in writing to the Board and shall state thereon the proposed
route and the number of days it is intended that the building shall occupy any
portion of the street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the village.
the application shall be accompanied by a $100 nonrefundable application fee.
This fee shall be in addition to any fees required pursuant to §
97.081.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.081 APPROVAL; FEE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the intended route by the Village Board of Trustees,
the applicant shall pay a fee determined by the Clerk as being sufficient to
pay the estimated cost of necessary and appropriate services provided by
village departments to insure the safe and orderly moving of a building on,
through, or over any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place including,
but not limited to the cost of closing a portion of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place to traffic; protecting, moving, or relocating
utility facilities; and personnel costs. The applicant shall post a bond
satisfactory to the Village Board for public liability and damage to village
property. Upon completion of the move, the applicant shall be billed the actual
cost of such necessary and appropriate services provided by the village
departments and such invoice shall be paid within 30 days.
   (B)   Interest at the rate of 18% per annum shall be added to the amount of
such costs in the event that such costs are not paid within 30 days from the
date of billing. Moving of such building pursuant to a permit issued by the
Village Board shall constitute the applicant’s agreement to the payment of
these costs and interest.
§ 97.082 BOND.
   Every person applying for a permit under this subchapter shall submit with
his or her application a cash bond with a lawful corporate surety to be
approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned on compliance with all the
provisions of this subchapter, and agreeing to pay and holding the village
harmless from any claim which may be made against it by reason of the
occupation of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place by the
building or structure moved.
§ 97.083 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lights and warnings. Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house
or structure which is being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by
the Police Department so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that
portion of the street so blocked. The person moving any building through the
street shall keep warning signs and lanterns or lights on the building so as to
guard against any person or vehicle from colliding with the building.
   (B)   Wires, cutting. Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires
or cables of a public utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or
franchise ordinance governing shall apply and the bond therein specified shall
be given. If no such terms apply, then the Board of Trustees shall estimate the
expense of fixing the wires and the bond to be given to cover the expense.
   (C)   Fire alarm wires. When any moving building shall approach any fire
alarm wire or pole which shall be endangered by the removal of the building or
structure, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the Street
Superintendent at least six hours before reaching the wire or pole so that they
may be removed or cared for by the village authorities.
   (D)   Other wires. Whenever any licensed building mover engaged to move any
building through or past wires, cables, or other electrical conductors owned
and operated by the village, or by any other person or corporation, and shall
have secured a permit from the Board of Trustees for the removal in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall serve notice in writing
on the person or corporation owning, using, or operating any such wire, cable,
or other electrical conductor through which he or she desires to pass,
specifying the time the building he or she is removing will reach the wire,
cable, or other electrical conductor to be cut or otherwise removed or disposed
of so as to allow the person or corporation not less than 24 hours before the
time at which it is desired to cut the wire, cable, or other electrical
conductor or otherwise dispose of same.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense. Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
CHAPTER 98: UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Prohibited and declared to be nuisance
   
98.03   Notice to owner to correct; correction by village
   
98.04   Additional remedies
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. As used in this chapter is hereby defined to mean and
include:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures.
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of
any part of the structure.
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available
to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of the structure.
§ 98.02 PROHIBITED AND DECLARED TO BE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any dangerous building, as defined in §
98.01, in the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any
dangerous building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the record
owner, occupant, or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the
same to remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy the building or permit it
to be occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. The President
and Board of Trustees may, in addition to any other action authorized by this
chapter, enforce this section.
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 NOTICE TO OWNER TO CORRECT; CORRECTION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   Whenever the President and Board of Trustees of the village are of the
opinion, based upon a viewing of the premises by the President, a Trustee, or
an official of the village charged with enforcement of building or zoning and
an oral or written report to the President and Board of Trustees, that any
building or structure in the village is a dangerous building, the Board of
Trustees may by resolution direct the Village Clerk to cause written notice to
be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by
registered mail or personal service.
      (1)   Notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in a
dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied at once. Notice may be in the following form:
         “To             (owner-occupant of the premises) of the premises known
and described as             . You are hereby notified that (described
building) on the premises above described has been condemned as a nuisance and
as a dangerous building after inspection by                  .
            The cause for this decision is (here insert the facts as to the
dangerous condition).
         You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately,
or the village will proceed to do so.
         You may also be subject to a fine of not less than $50 per day nor
more than $500 per day for each day the building has been or shall remain in a
dangerous condition.”
      (2)   If the person receiving this notice has not complied therewith
within ten days from the time when this notice is served upon the person by
personal service or by registered mail, the President and Board of Trustees may
proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building.
   (B)   If the owner of the premises is unknown or if his or her address is
unknown, service of any notice provided for in this section may be made by
posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing a copy thereof one
time in a newspaper published within the village.
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this
chapter, the village may proceed under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1,
which authorizes the demolition, repair, or enclosure of unsafe and dangerous
buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings, and/or the removal of
garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials from the buildings, or under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.01,
which authorizes the securing or enclosing of abandoned residential property,
by applying to the Circuit Court for an order for the owners to do so and which
authorizes a lien when the village is compelled to take action.
   (B)   The village may also proceed under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-
2, which authorizes an injunction to require compliance with building, fire,
health, and safety standards.
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be punished by imposition of a fine of not less than $50 and not more than $750
per offense. Every day a building shall be maintained or permitted to exist in
a dangerous condition shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 99: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Permit requirements
   
99.03   Drawings and plans to be submitted
   
99.04   Location restrictions
   
99.05   Swimming pool fences
   
99.06   Electrical requirements
   
99.07   Pools to be kept safe and sanitary
   
99.08   Inspection requirements
   
99.09   Nonconforming structures
   
99.10   Enforcement
   
99.11   Variations
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE POOL. A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having
a depth of less than two feet, intended for the purpose of immersion or partial
immersion therein of human beings.
   PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by an
individual primarily for the sole use of his or her household and guests and
not for the purpose of profit or in connection with any business operated for
profit.
   PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by individuals for the use
of more than one household, maintained by a club for the use of its members,
maintained by a business for profit, or maintained by a school, park district,
municipality, or other public not-for-profit organizations.
   SWIMMING POOL. A receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water having
a depth at any point of more than two feet, intended for the purpose of
immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings, and including all
appurtenant equipment constructed, installed, and maintained in or above the
ground inside or outside of a building.
§ 99.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement, or alteration of any swimming pool unless permits shall have been
obtained from the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement, or alteration of any public swimming pool within the village
unless any required permits shall first have also been obtained from the state.
   (C)   Juvenile pools shall require no permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.03 DRAWINGS AND PLANS TO BE SUBMITTED.
   Each application for a swimming pool permit shall be accompanied by a permit
fee of $5 and by a set of plans or drawings which shall be drawn to scale. All
distances and dimensions shall be accurately figured, and drawings shall be
made explicit and complete, showing the lot lines, distance from the residence,
and location of the fence and the pool walk. The application shall contain
information pertaining to the swimming pool, walk and fence construction,
electrical system, and all relevant appurtenances pertaining to the pool,
sufficient to show whether the swimming pool will comply with this chapter.
§ 99.04 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be permitted only in areas
zoned single-family residential under the village zoning code. No portion of
the pool shall be located less than four feet from a side or rear lot line.
Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in any front yard.
   (B)   Public swimming pools shall be permitted in areas zoned residential
and business under the village zoning code, except that any public swimming
pool operated for the purpose of profit or operated in connection with a
business operated for profit shall not be operated in a single-family
residential zone. No portion of a public swimming pool or its appurtenant
equipment shall be located less than 15 feet from a side or rear lot line.
Public swimming pools shall not be located in a front yard.
§ 99.05 SWIMMING POOL FENCES.
   (A)   A swimming pool shall be completely enclosed by a fence erected along
the periphery of the swimming pool and any immediately adjacent walk, deck, or
terrace area appurtenant to the swimming pool. The fence shall be at last 36
inches in height and shall be designed and constructed to render the swimming
pool inaccessible to children under six years of age. All fence openings shall
be equipped with gates and all gates shall be equipped with self-closing
devices and shall have latches.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall be exempt from the requirements of division (A)
above if they are above ground level in whole or in part, and if they have a
walkway or deck area greater than 30 inches in height with integral guards or
rails and a means of egress which can be removed and locked while the swimming
pool is not in use. Persons with these exempt pools shall ensure than ladders
and other means of ingress or egress are kept removed or locked when the
swimming pools are not in use.
§ 99.06 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Where electrical conductors are adjacent to a swimming pool or juvenile
pool, they shall have proper insulation and shall be ground fault protected. No
overhead electrical wires shall be permitted within 15 feet of a swimming pool.
§ 99.07 POOLS TO BE KEPT SAFE AND SANITARY.
   Swimming pools and juvenile pools shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and
sanitary condition.
§ 99.08 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The officer charged under the village zoning code with enforcement may, upon
completion of construction of a pool or upon receipt of information that a pool
is nonconforming, and with prior notice to the owner, inspect a swimming pool
to determine whether it is in compliance with provisions of this chapter.
§ 99.09 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Swimming pools erected prior to the effective date of this chapter which do
not meet the fence, electrical, or safety requirements of this chapter shall be
made to conform to such requirements within 90 days of the effective date of
this chapter. No swimming pool existing as of the effective date of this
chapter shall be rendered illegal solely because its violation of location or
setback provision of this chapter.
§ 99.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to own or operate a swimming pool or juvenile pool in
violation of this chapter. The officer charged with administration of the
village zoning code is charged with administration of this chapter.
§ 99.11 VARIATIONS.
   Variations under this chapter may be allowed and shall be processed in the
same manner as variations under the zoning code.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics.
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Application of general licensing provisions
   
110.02   License permit or registration required
   
110.03   License fees
   
110.04   Issuance of licenses, permits, and registrations; collection of fees;
refunds
   
110.05   Application and issuance of licenses, permits, and registrations
   
110.06   License permit or registration term, expiration, and renewal
   
110.07   Display of license, permit, or registration
   
110.08   Nature and transferability of license, permit, or registration;
unlawful use
   
110.09   Name and place of business; change of business location
   
110.10   Inspections; admission to premises; samples
   
110.11   Revocation or suspension of license or permit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 APPLICATION OF GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   The policies, procedures and regulations contained in this chapter shall be
known as the general licensing provisions of the village. These policies,
procedures, and regulations shall govern all situations where a more specific
licensing section is silent, except where a specific licensing section is
exempted by its terms from the general provisions or is in conflict with these
general provisions.
§ 110.02 LICENSE PERMIT OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any business, occupation, activity, or
establishment, either by himself, herself or itself or through an agent,
employee, partner, or corporate officer for which a license, permit, or
registration is required by this code or by any village ordinance, without
first having obtained the required license, permit, or registration for the
business, occupation, activity, or establishment.
Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   State law as to power of village relative to the issuance and revocation of
licenses, see 65 ILCS 5/11-60-1
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEES.
   Each business, occupation, activity, or establishment for which a license,
permit, or registration is required shall also be required to pay a fee as set
and determined by the Board of Trustees and set forth in Title XVII of this
code of ordinances.
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES, PERMITS, AND REGISTRATIONS; COLLECTION OF FEES;
REFUNDS.
   (A)   All licenses and permits shall be signed by the President and all
licenses, permits, and registrations shall be issued by the Clerk, unless
otherwise provided in this code.
   (B)   All fees shall be payable to the village and shall be collected by the
Clerk.
   (C)   Any license, permit, or registration fees paid in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall not be refunded unless otherwise provided in
this code.
§ 110.05 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSES, PERMITS, AND REGISTRATIONS.
   (A)   Application for any license or permit shall be filed with and on the
form provided by the Clerk, which form shall include the business address and
telephone number of the establishment for which the license or permit is
sought, and the business address and telephone number of the applicant unless
otherwise provided in this code. The application form shall contain the
required information as to each person applying for a license or permit, and be
signed by the applicant. Where the applicant is a corporation, group, or
association, the chief executive and chief fiscal officers shall sign,
indicating their official capacity, and verify the application. Where a
partnership is an applicant, all partners shall sign and verify the
application.
   (B)   The Clerk shall review all applications and conduct or cause to be
conducted inspections when necessary to verify information contained in any
application.
   (C)   If the provisions of this code have been complied with, the Clerk
shall recommend to the President that the application be approved. If the
provisions have not been complied with, he or she shall recommend denial.
   (D)   The President shall be responsible for approving or denying any
license or permit for which he or she is designated in this code to approve or
deny. Upon receipt of any application, the President shall approve it provided
that the requirements of this code have been complied with. He or she shall
immediately forward the approved application to the Clerk who will notify the
applicant. The Clerk shall issue the license or permit upon receipt of proof
from the applicant that the required fees have been paid.
   (E)   If, after due consideration, the President determines that the
provisions of this code have not been satisfied, he or she shall deny the
application. He or she shall notify the applicant and the Clerk, in writing,
that the application has not been approved and the reasons therefor.
   (F)   Within ten days from service of the President’s notice of denial, the
applicant may request, in writing, to the President a hearing before the Board
of Trustees, at which the applicant may explain why the application should be
approved. A hearing under this division shall take place within 30 days of the
receipt of the applicant’s request for a hearing. The applicant shall be
permitted to be represented by counsel at no expense to the village.
   (G)   If the applicant does not request a hearing within ten days, the
applicant shall have waived the opportunity for a hearing before the Board of
Trustees.
   (H)   Upon presentation of any evidence by the applicant, the Board of
Trustees shall decide whether the application should be approved or denied.
   (I)   Provided that the requirements of the code are satisfied, the Board of
Trustees shall approve the application. The approved application shall be
forwarded to the Clerk. The Clerk shall notify the applicant and issue the
license or permit upon receiving proof of payment of fees by the applicant.
   (J)   In the event the Board of Trustees denies an application, the
applicant shall be informed by the Clerk, in writing, of the reason for denial.
§ 110.06 LICENSE PERMIT OR REGISTRATION TERM, EXPIRATION, AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license, permit, or registration shall indicate its term. Such
term shall commence on January 1 of each year, unless otherwise provided in
this code. No license, permit, or registration shall be granted for a period
longer than one year. Every annual license, permit, or registration shall
expire at the end of December 31 following the date of issuance, unless
otherwise provided in this code. Any licensee or permittee shall pay the full
fees for any annual license, permit, or registration issued from the first day
of the license or permit term through the end of the last day of the first six
months of the term and pay 1/2 of the fees from the first day of the second six
months of the license or permit term through the last day of the annual term,
unless otherwise provided in this code.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify all licensees and permittee, no less than 30
days before the expiration of the existing license or permit, that they need to
file an application for renewal of their license or permit. A renewal
application shall be filed and processed in the same manner as an original
application.
§ 110.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE, PERMIT, OR REGISTRATION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, every person who is issued a
license, permit, or registration shall display such license, permit, or
registration in a conspicuous place accessible to the public on the premises
where the business, occupation, activity, or establishment is operated.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 NATURE AND TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE, PERMIT, OR REGISTRATION;
UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   Any license, permit, or registration required and described in this
code shall be a purely personal privilege, not to exceed its designated term.
It shall not constitute property and shall not be transferable except as
provided in this code.
   (B)   In the case of the death of any person licensed or permitted under the
provisions of this code or other ordinances of the village, before the term of
the license or permit shall have expired, his or her surviving partners in the
case of a partnership or the legal representative may continue to act under
such license or permit for the unexpired term thereof, subject, however, to the
conditions imposed on the person to whom it was originally issued.
   (C)   In the case of the sale of a licensed or permitted business by the
current licensee or permittee, the current licensee or permittee may designate
the purchasing person or entity to succeed him or her as licensee or permittee.
Upon application of the purchaser, a new license or permit may be issued by the
President provided that the applicant meets all the criteria applicable to a
new licensee or permittee. The purchaser shall pay the required fees for the
duration of the license or permit term prior to being issued any license or
permit.
   (D)   No person shall alter, deface, forge, counterfeit, or duplicate any
license, permit, or registration issued by the village.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS; CHANGE OF BUSINESS LOCATION.
   (A)   No person granted a license or permit pursuant to this chapter shall
operate under any name or operate his or her business under any designation not
specified on his or her license or permit.
   (B)   Where a license, permit, or registration issued under the provisions
of this code is only valid for a particular location, the location of the
licensed or permitted business, activity, occupation, or establishment may be
changed provided that the licensee or permittee makes application to the Clerk
not less than 14 days prior to the change of location and that the proposed
location complies with all applicable zoning, building, or similar ordinances
and that the application is approved by the President.
   (C)   Where application for change of location is denied, the denial may be
reviewed pursuant to the hearing procedures contained in §
110.05.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 INSPECTIONS; ADMISSION TO PREMISES; SAMPLES.
   (A)   The village shall have authority to inspect any establishment that
contains any business occupation or activity for which a license, permit, or
registration is required by this code.
   (B)   Whenever inspection of any establishment used for or in connection
with the operation of a licensed or permitted business, activity, or occupation
is provided for or required by ordinance or is reasonably necessary to secure
compliance with any ordinance or to detect violations thereof, the licensee,
permittee, or person in charge of the establishment shall admit thereto at any
reasonable time any village official who is authorized or directed to make the
inspections by the President.
   (C)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or to
detect violations thereof, the licensee, or permittee or person in charge of
the establishment shall, upon request, give to any authorized village official
samples of the material or commodities sufficient for this analysis.
   (D)   Written reports of any inspection conducted pursuant to this section
shall be made available to the licensee or permittee of the inspected
establishment upon written request to the Clerk.
§ 110.11 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any licensee or permittee found to be in violation of the provisions
of this code, as hereinafter provided, may have the license or permit suspended
for a period not to exceed 90 days, by the President or have the license or
permit revoked by the President.
   (B)   Any license or permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter for any of the following reasons or for those
reasons specified in other applicable licensing chapters:
      (1)   The licensee or permittee has knowingly made materially fraudulent
or misleading statements in his or her application for any license or permit;
      (2)   The licensee or permittee has violated ordinance provisions
relating to the license, permit, or registration, related thereto the subject
matter of the license, permit, or registration, or the establishment occupied;
      (3)   The licensee or permittee has failed to pay the license, permit, or
registration fee or any penalty owing the village;
      (4)   The licensee or permittee has refused to permit the inspection or
investigation or sampling as authorized by this code.
   (C)   The Clerk is authorized to receive allegations and issue notifications
of noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon receipt of any
allegation he or she shall cause an investigation to determine the accuracy of
the allegations. Upon completion of the investigation the Clerk shall recommend
to the President any action to be taken.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the recommendation, the President shall take
appropriate action which may include the suspension or revocation of the
license or permit. Any notice shall be set forth in writing and be served in
person or be mailed by certified mail return receipt requested to the licensee
or permittee.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a notice, the licensee or permittee may within three
working days request in writing to the Clerk a hearing before the President. A
hearing under this subsection shall take place within ten days of the receipt
of the licensee’s or permittee’s request for a hearing. At any hearing
conducted in accordance with this chapter, the President shall hear evidence
that is material and relevant to the allegations in the complaint and shall
render a decision as to the validity of the complaint. The licensee or
permittee shall be permitted to be represented by counsel at no expense to the
village and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine all
witnesses called.
   (F)   Where a licensee or permittee does not request a hearing within three
working days, the licensee or permittee shall have waived the opportunity for a
hearing.
   (G)   The President shall render a decision in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Any license or permit suspension or revocation, if ordered, shall not
be in lieu of any penalty imposed for violation of any provision of this code
or other ordinance of the village.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$750 for each offense. Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Local Commissioner
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Restrictions on licensees
   
111.06   Record of licenses
   
111.07   Insurance requirements
   
111.08   Term of license; renewals; dishonored payment
   
111.09   Transfer of license
   
111.10   Classification and fees
   
111.11   Initial license applications; fees
   
111.12   Number of licenses issued
   
111.13   Incomplete applications
   
111.14   Disposition of fees
   
111.15   Conditions of license
Location, Building, and Premises Restrictions
   
111.30   Location restrictions
   
111.31   Sanitary conditions
   
111.32   View from street
   
111.33   Premises restrictions
   
111.34   Personnel restrictions
   
111.35   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
111.36   Sales to minors, drunkards, and the like
   
111.37   Purchase or acceptance of gift by minors; identification cards
Violations
   
111.50   Violation of tax acts
   
111.51   Suspension and revocation; complaints and hearings
   
111.52   Forfeiture of fees
   
111.53   Use of premises after revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used in this chapter and not otherwise defined herein,
which are defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as
amended, shall have the meaning accorded to the words and phrases in that Act.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions set forth below:
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.01)
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing .5% or less of
alcohol by volume.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.05)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.04)
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring, or leasing a
building or space in a building of an extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing, and serving food and meals for its
members and their guests; provided that the club files with the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this
chapter two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and
similarly files within ten days of the election of any additional member his or
her name and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management
are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body
chosen by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any
officer, agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly
receives in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the
distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club
or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be
fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of
directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.24)
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity. All public dining rooms, banquet rooms, meeting rooms,
room service areas, mini-bars, and other locations within or adjacent to a
hotel in which alcoholic liquors are stored, offered for sale, or sold at
retail shall be considered part of the hotel’s licensed premises if those
locations within or adjacent to the hotel are owned and managed by the hotel
operator. As part of the hotel’s licensed premises, each and all of those
locations within or adjacent to the hotel shall be maintained and managed
pursuant to a single retailer’s license issued by the State Commission to the
hotel operator, regardless of the number of local retailer licenses mandated by
the local unit of government having jurisdiction over the hotel. Public dining
rooms and other locations within or adjacent to a hotel that are owned or
managed by a person other than the hotel operator and are licensed by the local
unit of government having jurisdiction over the hotel to a person other than
the hotel operator are not considered part of the hotel’s licensed premises for
purposes of the Liquor Control Act and, as such, must be maintained and
operated under separate retailer’s licenses.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.25)
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The state Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   LOCAL COMMISSIONER. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as defined by the
Liquor Control Act.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.17)
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant, or employee. The term SALE includes any transfer of alcoholic liquor
from a foreign importer’s license to an importing distributor’s license even if
both licenses are held by the same person.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.21)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refers to and means sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.18)
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.02)
   STATE COMMISSION. The Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.22)
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, or honey, containing sugar, including mead
and such beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as
above defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03)
§ 111.02 LOCAL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Designation. The Village President is hereby designated as the Local
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the Liquor Control
Act and of ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted. The President may appoint a person or persons to assist in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for in
division (B).
   (B)   Powers, duties, and functions. The Local Commissioner shall have all
the powers, functions, and duties with respect to local liquor licenses granted
by the Liquor Control Act, including:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within the
Commissioner’s jurisdiction, and to impose fines as set forth herein.
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act or this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted by the Local Commissioner or by the state commission, have
been or are being violated, and at such time to examine the premises of the
licensee in connection therewith.
      (3)   To receive complaints from any citizen with the Local
Commissioner’s jurisdiction that any of the provisions of the Liquor Control
Act or of this chapter have been or are being violated, and to act upon these
complaints in the manner provided by law.
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay same to the Village
Treasurer.
      (5)   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for
a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the state Liquor Control Commission;
to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any applicant or
licensee or respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for information in
the performance of the Local Commissioner’s duties; and for these purposes, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Commissioner
under this section, the Commissioner may authorize his or her agent to act on
his or her behalf.
      (6)   To order, upon the issuance of a written order, the licensed
premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, if the Local Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community; except that if
the licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses on the licensed premises, the order shall not be applicable to the
other business or businesses.
      (7)   If the village permits club licenses, to notify the Secretary of
State where a club incorporated under the General Not for Profit Corporation
Act or a foreign corporation functioning as a club in this state under a
certificate of authority issued under that Act has violated the Liquor Control
Act by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a
retailer’s license.
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Local Commissioners, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2, 4-4, and 4-5
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of the license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for these licenses shall be made to the Local
Commissioner, or the Village Clerk operating in the Commissioner’s behalf, in
writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following statements and information:
      (1)   The full name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names, addresses, date of birth, and place of birth of the
officers, directors, all persons owning directly or beneficially more than 5%
of the stock of the corporation, and the persons acting as managers or
assistant managers of the premises;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, the applicant’s date and place of
birth, and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amounts of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license.
         (a)   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided as
required and shall be for a term of sufficient length to encompass the period
of the license sought.
         (b)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the premises and
the names and addresses of all the owners of the beneficial interest of any
trust if the premises is held in trust;
      (7)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in this application,
and the disposition of the application;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws for this state, or the ordinances of this
village;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government, has been issued, and, if so, where and when, or if
any such license has been revoked the reasons therefor;
      (10)   The date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date
of becoming qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act to transact
business of Illinois if a foreign corporation; and
      (11)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
this state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of his or her place of business.
   (B)   All managers and assistant managers for all types of licensed
businesses must file applications pursuant to this section as if they were
applicants for individual licenses, must meet all pertinent licensing
requirements of this chapter, and must be approved by the Local Commissioner.
The application, approval, and qualification requirements for managers and
assistant managers shall be conditions attached to the license of the business
employing them, and any violations of those requirements can result in license
penalties for the employing business, including suspension, revocation, or
fines.
   (C)   (1)   The Local Commissioner may, in the exercise of his or her
discretion, require any applicant for a new village liquor license, or any
applicant for a renewal of a village liquor license, to be fingerprinted
whether the applicant be an individual or a partnership. Should the applicant
be a corporation, the Local Commissioner may, within his or her discretion,
require the following to be fingerprinted:
         (a)   The officers, manager, or director of the corporation; or
         (b)   Any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more
than 5% of the capital stock of the corporation.
      (2)   All fingerprinting shall be done by the Police Department.
Fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate state and federal agencies
for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the
applicant.
   (D)   The Local Commissioner shall issue a written acceptance or rejection
of an application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or Clerk in
his or her behalf; or shall notify an applicant of the reasons for further time
being necessary to complete the investigation or processing; or shall schedule
a hearing on the application as allowed by 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   License applications, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1, 4-7, and 7-1
§ 111.05 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEES.
   (A)   The fact that an applicant has been convicted of or has been placed on
supervision for a drug or alcohol-related offense or suspension of a liquor
license in any other jurisdiction shall be considered in the review of an
application for any license or renewal thereof, and may be the basis for the
denial of the license or renewal of any license hereunder. For purposes of this
chapter, ALCOHOL-RELATED OFFENSE includes driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, and any offenses involving the possession, transfer, or
consumption of alcohol.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C), no liquor license shall
be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the village;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which the person resides;
      (3)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under federal or state
law, unless the State Commission determines that such person will not be
impaired by the conviction in engaging in the licensed practice after
considering matters set forth in such person’s application in accordance with
235 ILCS 5/6-2.5 and the State Commission’s investigation;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution
or keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that
involves keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution
that involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of pandering;
      (6)   A person whose license under this chapter or under the Liquor
Control Act has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
      (8)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in the copartnership, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence within the village, unless
residency is required by local ordinance;
      (9)   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager, or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than 5% of the stock of the corporation, would not be eligible
to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the
village;
      (10)   A corporation or limited liability company, unless it is
incorporated or organized in this state, or unless it is a foreign corporation
or foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the Business
Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability Company Act to transact
business in this state. The State Commission shall permit and accept from an
applicant for a license under the Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5) proof
prepared from the Secretary of State’s website that the corporation or limited
liability company is in good standing and is qualified under the Business
Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability Company Act to transact
business in this state;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
by the licensee;
      (12)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
or who shall have forfeited a bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
violation, unless the State Commission determines, in accordance with 235 ILCS
5/6-2.5, that the person will not be impaired by the conviction in engaging in
the licensed practice;
      (13)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is issued;
      (14)   Any law enforcing village public official, officer, or employee or
member of any village board or commission; and no official shall have a direct
interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor except
as set out in 235 ILCS 5/6-2(a)(14);
      (15)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      (16)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
proscribed by 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12), 28-1.1, or 28-3, or as
proscribed by a statute replacing any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      (17)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been
issued by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be
issued a license under 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq. or 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.;
      (18)   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a);
      (19)   A person who is licensed by any licensing authority as a
manufacturer of beer, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer, having any
legal, equitable, or beneficial interest, directly or indirectly, in a person
licensed in this state as a distributor or importing distributor. For purposes
of this division (B)(19), a person who is licensed by any licensing authority
as a MANUFACTURER OF BEER shall also mean a brewer and a non-resident dealer
who is also a manufacturer of beer, including a partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent
thereof, or any other form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of
beer; or
      (20)   A person who is licensed in this state as a distributor or
importing distributor, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed in this state as a distributor or
importing distributor having any legal, equitable, or beneficial interest,
directly or indirectly, in a person licensed as a manufacturer of beer by any
licensing authority, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise, except for a person who owns no more than 5% of
the outstanding shares of a manufacturer of beer whose shares are publicly
traded on an exchange within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. For the purposes of this division (B)(20), a person who is licensed by
any licensing authority as a MANUFACTURER OF BEER shall also mean a brewer and
a non-resident dealer who is also a manufacturer of beer, including a
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or trust or any
subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other form of business
enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer.
   (C)   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal,
state or local law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic
liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial
gain to the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship
with each director, employee or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The State Commission shall
determine if all provisions of this division (C) have been met before any
action on the corporation’s license is initiated.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on state licensees, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 111.06 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued and
shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof. Upon revocation or
suspension of any license, the Village Clerk shall immediately give written
notice thereof to the Chief.
§ 111.07 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be granted to an applicant until the applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Commissioner that the applicant is
covered by a policy of dram shop insurance issued by a responsible insurance
company authorized and licensed to do business in the state insuring the
applicant against liability which the applicant may incur under the provisions
of 235 ILCS 5/6-21 and specifically designating the village as an additional
insured. The evidence of the insurance policy shall indicate that the term of
the insurance is of sufficient length to encompass the period of the license
sought.
Statutory reference:
   Insurance requirements, see 235 ILCS 5/6-21 et seq.
§ 111.08 TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS; DISHONORED PAYMENT.
   (A)   Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30 following
the issuance thereof. Any licensee may renew its license at the expiration
thereof, provided that it is then qualified to receive a license, and the
premises for which the renewal license is sought are suitable for the purpose,
and provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not
be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Board of
Trustees from decreasing or limiting the number of classes of licenses to be
issued within the village.
   (B)   A negotiable instrument received as payment for a license fee,
transfer fee, late fee, offer in compromise, pre-disciplinary conference
settlement, or fine imposed by order that is dishonored on presentation shall
not be considered payment and shall be cause for disciplinary action.
(235 ILCS 5/6-1)
Statutory reference:
   License term; renewal, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1 et seq.
§ 111.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, effective for a period
not to exceed one year after issuance, except a non-beverage user’s license,
unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. A license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee, provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
an estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of
the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the order of the appropriate
court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of the decedent, or insolvency or bankruptcy, until
the expiration of the license, but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy, or insolvency of the licensee.
   (B)   Except in the case of a non-beverage user’s license, a refund shall be
made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the
licensee shall be prevented from operating under the license in accordance with
this section.
Statutory reference:
   License transfers, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1
§ 111.10 CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   There shall be classes of licenses with an annual license fee as indicated
and set forth in Title XVII of this code of ordinances.
§ 111.11 INITIAL LICENSE APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The first and initial license fee for new licenses issued between May
1 and October 31 of any year shall be in an amount equal to the annual fee
described in §
111.10 plus a nonrefundable fee as set forth in Title XVII of this code of
ordinances to defray the costs of investigation of the applicant as provided
for and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, payable in one installment.
The first and initial license fee for new licenses issued between November 1
and April 30 for any year shall be in an amount equal to one-half the annual
fee plus the nonrefundable fee to defray costs of investigation of applicant as
provided for and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, payable in one
installment.
   (B)   Any sale, transfer, or assignment of more than 50% of the shares of a
corporation shall terminate the license for the purpose of payment of a fee for
a first and initial license.
   (C)   Any bankruptcy, insolvency of a license, or any sale, transfer, or
assignment of any copartner or copartnership or copartnership interests in a
license held by a copartnership shall terminate the license for the purpose of
payment of a fee for a first and initial license.
§ 111.12 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall be designated by the classification as
set forth in Title XVII of this code of ordinances. There shall be a number of
licenses as may be from time to time determined by the Board of Trustees. There
may be in force at any time no more than that amount as set forth in Title XVII
of this code of ordinances.
§ 111.13 INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for liquor licenses which are incomplete or fail to
contain the statements or information required by §
111.04 shall be rejected by the Local Commissioner. The Commissioner shall
issue a written rejection of the application setting forth the deficiencies in
the application within 60 days of its receipt by the Commissioner or by the
Village Clerk. Prior to this rejection, the applicant may submit the additional
information or statements required to complete the application in accordance
with §
111.04.
   (B)   Administrative or legal expenses incurred in reviewing incomplete
liquor license applications, advising the applicant of the deficiencies, and
rejecting the applications shall be paid by the applicant. A bill or invoice
shall be submitted to the applicant specifying the additional administrative or
legal expenses incurred in processing the applicant’s incomplete liquor license
application, which shall be paid by the applicant together with the annual
license fee prior to the issuance of the liquor license.
§ 111.14 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   All these fees shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time
application is made.
   (B)   Although the license is payable at the time of making application for
license, the Local Commissioner may divide the annual license fee into two
payments, each payable semiannually.
   (C)   In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant, except for the nonrefundable fee set forth in §
111.11.
   (D)    If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited as set
forth above, and no portion thereof shall be refunded, except as set forth in §
111.09.
§ 111.15 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Closing hours. Shall be as set forth in Title XVII of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Election days. Licensees may sell at retail any alcoholic liquor on
the day of any national, state, county, or village election, including primary
elections, during the hours the polls are open, within the political area in
which the election is being held.
   (C)   Refilling original packages. No person licensed under this chapter
shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic
liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at
retail any bottles, casks, or other containers containing alcoholic liquor,
unless in original packages, except vinous beverages and pitchers of beer as
permitted elsewhere herein.
   (D)   Quantity sales for on-premises consumption. It shall be unlawful for
any licensee, other than any as set forth in Title XVII of this code of
ordinances, within the meaning of that term as defined in this chapter, to
sell, give away, or permit to be sold, served, or given away for consumption on
the licensed premises any distilled spirits except by the glass, in individual
servings not exceeding three fluid ounces.
   (E)   Displaying license. Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
Penalty, see §
111.99
LOCATION, BUILDING, AND PREMISES RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.30 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or
naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or restaurants or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if the place of business or use so exempted is established for
these purposes prior to the establishment of any such church, school, home for
the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any
military or naval station, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school,
where the church or school has been established within the 100 feet since the
issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100
feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor, if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquor.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale of any alcoholic
liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of customers
are minors of school age, or where the principal business transacted consists
of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for the minors.
   (D)   A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. The location may
be changed only when and upon the written permit to make the change shall be
issued by the Local Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted
unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of the liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with any and
all village ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel, recreational
facility, or club) no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article, or thing
shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of the licensed premises
nor inside the premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of
the licensed premises from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times. No
booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of the premises which
shall prevent a clear view of the entire interior from the street, road, or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible.
   (B)   In case the view into any the licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee, or be
permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then the license shall be
subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this section, the Village President shall have the right to
require the filing of plans, drawings, and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as above required.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 PREMISES RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensed premises shall be operated or occupied in violation of any
building, fire, health, or safety code, rule, regulation, occupancy, or
capacity limitation established or adopted by the village, the state, or if
applicable, the Fire Protection District for the village.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 PERSONNEL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Change in personnel.
      (1)   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than 5% of the stock or ownership interest,
managers or assistant managers of establishments licensed under this chapter
shall be reported in writing to the Local Commissioner within ten days of the
change. All new personnel shall meet all the standards of this chapter and must
otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. All these changes in personnel
shall be subject to review by the Local Commissioner.
      (2)   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, the license shall terminate.
      (3)   When a license has been issued to a corporation, and a change takes
place in officers, directors, managers, or shareholders of more than 5% of the
stock, resulting in the holding of office or the shares of stock by one who is
not eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
      (4)   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, the license shall terminate.
   (B)   Employees. It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation, or distribution of the liquor. No employee, agent, or
manager, while on duty within the premises, shall use or consume any illegal
drugs or alcoholic liquor, or be under the influence of illegal drugs or
alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Supervision. A licensee which operates with a manager or assistant
manager shall have on duty at all times the manager or assistant manager when
the license is in effect.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Peddling. It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   (B)   Gambling. It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Solicitation. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, manager, or other
person in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage, employ, or permit the
engagement or employment of any person, nor shall any person be permitted to
remain on the premises who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to
purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor or sexual favors or services for
herself, himself, or any other person; nor shall any person, whether employer,
entertainer, or otherwise, solicit any patron or customer therein to purchase
alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for herself, himself, or any other person
therein. However, nothing herein contained shall prohibit any adult manager,
waitress, or waiter who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and
serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment
as the manager, waitress, or waiter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 SALES TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No licensee or officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of the licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known to be an habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient, or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic
liquor to another person under the age of 21 years except in the performance of
a religious ceremony or service. It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of 21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold.
   (B)   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
be supplied by the Village Clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
      “WARNING TO PERSONS
      UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
      You are subject to a fine of up to $500.00 under the ordinances of the
Village of              if you purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic
liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor.”
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a liquor license, or his or her
agent or employee, to suffer or permit any person under the age of 21 to be or
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place where the licensed premises is located; provided that this shall
not apply to any person under the age of 21 who is accompanied by a parent or
guardian, or to that portion of any licensed premises which derives its
principal business from the sale of service or commodities other than alcoholic
liquor. In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Local Commissioner
may suspend or revoke the liquor dealer’s license for any violation of this
division.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit
any person of which he or she is the parent or guardian to violate any
provisions of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to draw,
pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises, and it shall
be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to dispense, sell, or
deliver any alcoholic liquor in the original package, bottle, or case for
consumption off the premises of any licensed establishment. Except for the
prohibitions provided for in this section, it shall be lawful for any person 18
years of age or older to work in a licensed premises, and to serve alcoholic
liquor.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT BY MINORS; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Purchase or possession of alcoholic liquor by person under 21 years of
age.
      (1)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or attempt to purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
      (2)   If a licensee or the licensee’s agent or employee believes, has
reason to believe, or should have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the prospective recipient,
the licensee, agent, or employee shall, before making the sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification (containing proof
of age) issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official
duties. Reasonable care in compliance with the provisions of this division
shall be competent evidence and may be considered in prosecution, revocation,
or suspension for the violation of any section of this chapter relating to
revocation or suspension for the violation of any other provision of this
chapter.
      (3)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
      (4)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of
21 years is forbidden.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the possession
and dispensing, or consumption by a person under the age of 21 years of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or under
the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent of the underage
person in the privacy of a home.
Penalty, see §
111.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 111.50 VIOLATION OF TAX ACTS.
   (A)   In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Local
Commissioner, upon the complaint of the State Department of Revenue, may refuse
the issuance or renewal of a retail license, or suspend or revoke the license,
for any of the following violations of any tax act administered by the state
department:
      (1)   Failure to make a tax return;
      (2)   The filing of a fraudulent return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due;
      (4)   Failure to keep books and records;
      (5)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration; or
      (6)   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the State Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice from the State Department that a violation of
any items of division (A)(1) through (6) have been corrected or otherwise
resolved to the state department’s satisfaction, the Local Commissioner may
vacate an order of revocation.
(235 ILCS 5/6-3)
§ 111.51 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; COMPLAINTS AND HEARING.
   (A)   The Local Commissioner may, in accordance with the Liquor Control Act,
revoke or suspend any license issued by him or her, if he or she determines
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Act or of any
ordinance or resolution enacted by the Board of Trustees of the village or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Local Commissioner or the
state commission which is not inconsistent with law.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the suspension or revocation, licensees may be
fined as set forth in §
111.99. License suspension and revocation proceedings shall be conducted
pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
      (2)   Review of the Local Commissioner’s decision shall be as set forth
in 235 ILCS 5/7-9.
   (C)   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Local Commissioner stating that any retailer licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the Local Commissioner has been or is violating
the provisions of this chapter or the Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. The complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Local Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by
the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Local Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged
there is reasonable cause for the belief, he or she shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
(235 ILCS 5/7-7)
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   For revocation and suspension provisions under state law, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 111.52 FORFEITURE OF FEES.
   Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked as provided for in this
chapter, the licensee shall incur a forfeiture of all moneys that have been
paid for the license.
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of fees, see 235 ILCS 5/7-12
§ 111.53 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   (A)   When a license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to any person for a period of one year thereafter for the conduct of
the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license, unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
      (1)   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food
where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is
a completely new owner of the restaurant;
      (2)   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for
at least part of the 24 months before the change of ownership; and
      (3)   The restaurant is located 75 or more feet from a school.
(235 ILCS 5/7-13)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person other than a licensee violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   A licensee violating any provision of this chapter may be fined by the
Local Commissioner in addition to suspension or revocation. The fine shall not
exceed $1,000 for a first violation within a 12- month period, $1,500 for a
second violation within a 12-month period, and $2,500 for a third or subsequent
violation within a 12-month period. Each day on which the violation occurs
shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than $15,000 in fines under
this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of the
licensee’s license.
   (C)   Proceeds of fines imposed by the Local Commissioner shall be paid into
the village treasury.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirement
   
112.03   Application procedure
   
112.04   Standards for issuance
   
112.05   Revocation procedure
   
112.06   Standards for revocation
   
112.07   Appeal procedure
   
112.08   Exhibition of identification
   
112.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
112.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.11   Duty of solicitors
   
112.12   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
112.13   Time limit on soliciting
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of village to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit peddlers,
itinerant merchants, or transient vendors, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in this activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees and set forth in Title XVII of this code
of ordinances.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has committed the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 112.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 112.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.04 or
112.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be
given to the person in the same manner as provided in §
112.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 112.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the time that he or
she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 112.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 112.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
112.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.10 above.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of the
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. of any weekday
or Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$750. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics.
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(720 ILCS 5/2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(720 ILCS 5/2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this village or state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(720 ILCS 5/4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term “willfully,” unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
   (C)   When the law provides that acting knowingly suffices to establish an
element of an offense, that element also is established if a person acts
intentionally.
(720 ILCS 5/4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the term
“wantonly,” unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(720 ILCS 5/4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(720 ILCS 5/4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of attempt when,
with intent to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act that
constitutes a substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility.  It is not a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Statutory fine. A person convicted of attempt may be fined or
imprisoned or both, not to exceed the maximum provided for the offense
attempted. If the fine exceeds that set forth in §
130.99 below, however, the village shall enforce the offense under the
provisions of state law.
(720 ILCS 5/8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Sentencing for felony classes, murder-related sentencing, see 720 ILCS 5/8-4
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $750.
   (B)   In addition to any criminal penalties imposed for a violation of §
131.02, if a person is convicted of or placed on supervision for knowingly
damaging or destroying crops of another, including crops intended for personal,
commercial, research, or developmental purposes, the person is liable in a
civil action to the owner of any crops damaged or destroyed for money damages
up to twice the market value of the crops damaged or destroyed.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1(d)(4))
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Trespass to land
   
131.02   Damaging village property
   
131.03   Jackrocks
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when he or
she:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within
or on a building;
         (b)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to the
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart;
         (d)   Presents false documents or falsely represents his or her
identity orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to
obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building
or on the land;
         (e)   Intentionally removes a notice posted on residential real estate
as required by subsection (l) of § 15-1505.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure
(735 ILCS 5/15-1505.8(l)) before the date and time set forth in the notice; or
         (f)   Enters a field used or capable of being used for growing crops,
an enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock, or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped, or any other powered two-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to the entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry
is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
      (2)   For purposes of division (A)(1)(a), this section shall not apply to
being in a building which is open to the public while the building is open to
the public during its normal hours of operation; nor shall this section apply
to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable belief that the
building is still open to the public.
   (B)   (1)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within
the meaning of division (A) if he or she has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing including a valid court order as defined by subsection (b)
(7) of Section 112A-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963 (725 ILCS 5/
112A-3(b)(7)) granting remedy (2) of subsection (b) of § 112A-14 of that Code
(725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)(2)), or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the
land or the forbidden part thereof.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(3) below, as an
alternative to the posting of real property as set forth in division (B)(1),
the owner or lessee of any real property may post the property by placing
identifying purple marks on trees or posts around the area to be posted. Each
purple mark shall be:
            1.   A vertical line of at least eight inches in length and the
bottom of the mark shall be no less than three feet nor more than five feet
high. Such marks shall be placed no more than 100 feet apart and shall be
readily visible to any person approaching the property; or
            2.   A post capped or otherwise marked on at least its top two
inches. The bottom of the cap or mark shall be not less than three feet but not
more than five feet six inches high. Posts so marked shall be placed not more
than 36 feet apart and shall be readily visible to any person approaching the
property. Prior to applying a cap or mark which is visible from both sides of a
fence shared by different property owners or lessees, all such owners or
lessees shall concur in the decision to post their own property.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be construed to authorize
the owner or lessee of any real property to place any purple marks on any tree
or post or to install any post or fence if doing so would violate any
applicable law, rule, ordinance, order, covenant, bylaw, declaration,
regulation, restriction, contract, or instrument.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on this land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if
he or she beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial
properties located within the village. For the purpose of this division:
         (a)   UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY
means any real estate:
            1.   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least
two years; and
            2.   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of
at least one year.
         (b)   BEAUTIFIES means to landscape, clean up litter, or to repair
dilapidated conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages
to the owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property
which that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) above.
      (2)   (a)   A mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing, or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
         (b)   No mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing,
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (E)(2) only, ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of
the mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in § 15-1200.5 of Article XV of the Code of
Civil Procedure (see 735 ILCS 5/15-1200.5).
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division
(F), EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or
is reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
   (G)   Division (A)(4) does not apply to a peace officer or other official of
a unit of government who enters a building or land in the performance of his or
her official duties.
   (H)   (1)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to
the owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(6) above. A person may also be liable to the owner for court
costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. The measure of damages shall be:
         (a)   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in §§ 3.11 and 3.14
of the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act (525 ILCS 30/3.11 and 3.14);
         (b)   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified
the person to cease trespassing; or
         (c)   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50. If
the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the owner of the
vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly and severally
liable.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (H):
         (a)   LAND includes, but is not limited to, land used for crop land,
fallow land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil
nature preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or
private roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
         (b)   OWNER means the person who has the right to possession of the
land, including the owner, operator or tenant.
         (c)   VEHICLE has the same meaning as provided under § 1-217 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-217).
   (I)   This section does not apply to the following persons while serving
process:
      (1)   A person authorized to serve process under § 2-202 of the Code of
Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/2-202); or
      (2)   A special process server appointed by the Circuit Court.
(720 ILCS 5/21-3(a) - (g), (i), (j)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits criminal damage to property when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly damages any property of another;
      (2)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another;
      (3)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another;
      (4)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent;
      (5)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another any
stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere
with the use by another of the land or building;
      (6)   Knowingly damages any property, other than as described in division
(A)(2) above, with intent to defraud an insurer;
      (7)   Knowingly shoots a firearm at any portion of a railroad train;
      (8)   Knowingly, without proper authorization, cuts, injures, damages,
defaces, destroys, or tampers with any fire hydrant or any public or private
fire fighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to fire fighting
equipment; or
      (9)   Intentionally, without proper authorization, opens any fire
hydrant.
   (B)   When the charge of criminal damage to property exceeding a specified
value is brought, the extent of the damage is an element of the offense to be
resolved by the trier of fact as either exceeding or not exceeding the
specified value.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (A)(1), (3) or
(5) above that the owner of the property or land damaged consented to the
damage.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1(a) - (c)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional prohibitions; felonies, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
§ 131.03 JACKROCKS.
   (A)   A person commits a jackrocks violation when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, gives away, manufactures, purchases, or possesses a
jackrock; or
      (2)   Places, tosses, or throws a jackrock on public or private property.
   (B)   As used in this section, JACKROCK means a caltrop or other object
manufactured with one or more rounded or sharpened points, which when placed or
thrown present at least one point at such an angle that it is peculiar to and
designed for use in puncturing or damaging vehicle tires. It does not include a
device designed to puncture or damage the tires of a vehicle driven over it in
a particular direction, if a conspicuous and clearly visible warning is posted
at the device’s location, alerting persons to its presence.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the possession, transfer, or use of
jackrocks by any law enforcement officer in the course of his or her official
duties.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(a) - (c)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
131.01(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) is a Class B misdemeanor. A violation
of §
131.01(A)(6) is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-3(h))
   (C)   A jackrocks violation as set out in §
131.03 is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(d))
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the village
Fire Department or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at
the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that the fire exists;
      (3)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a
false alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a
container holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or
radioactive substance is concealed in a place where its explosion or release
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in the place;
      (4)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a threat of
destruction of a school building or school property, or a threat of violence,
death, or bodily harm directed against persons at a school, school function, or
school event, whether or not school is in session;
      (5)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been committed, knowing
at the time of the transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been
committed;
      (6)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
to any public safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe
that transmitting the report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the
public; or
      (7)   Calls or texts the number “911” or transmits or causes to be
transmitted in any manner to a public safety agency or public safety answering
point for the purpose of making or transmitting a false alarm or complaint and
reporting information when, at the time the call, text, or transmission is
made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for making the call, text,
or transmission and further knows that the call, text, or transmission could
result in the emergency response of any public safety agency;
      (8)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
to the Department of Children and Family Services under § 4 of the Abused and
Neglected Child Reporting Act (325 ILCS 5/4);
      (9)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
to the Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act (210 ILCS
45), the Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013 (210 ILCS 49), or
the ID/DD Community Care Act (210 ILCS 47);
      (10)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the village
Police Department or village Fire Department or fire protection district, or
any privately owned and operated ambulance service, a false request for an
ambulance, emergency medical technician-ambulance or emergency medical
technician-paramedic knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground for
believing that the assistance is required;
      (11)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner a false report
under Article II of Public Act 83-1432;
      (12)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      (13)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the Collection
Agency Act (205 ILCS 740) or as an employee of the collection agency, and while
attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged
debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor.
(720 ILCS 5/26-1(a))
   (B)   In addition to any penalty imposed as set forth in §
132.99, any person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be ordered by the
court to perform community service, as set forth under the provisions of 720
ILCS 5/26-1.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   (B)   Curfew defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under division (A)
above that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   (C)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in division (B) above is present.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
         (c)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile crash, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN. To:
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) - (d)) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
132.02 is a petty offense with a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500,
except that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (705 ILCS 405), nor that person’s legal guardian,
shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by
this section, the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other person
convicted of a violation of §
132.02(A) to perform community service as determined by the court, except that
the legal guardian of a person subject to delinquency proceedings or who has
been made a ward of the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not be
ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established for the
performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person
convicted of a violation of §
132.02(A) shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is
employed in his or her regular occupation. Fines and assessments, such as fees
or administrative costs, shall not be ordered or imposed against a minor under
the age of 18 transferred to adult court or excluded from juvenile court
jurisdiction under Article V of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, or the minor’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(e))
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER, OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one
known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity
commits a misdemeanor as set out in §
133.99.
   (B)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE means any person employed to
supervise and control inmates incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm,
reformatory, prison, jail, house of correction, police detention area, half-way
house, or other institution or place for the incarceration or custody of
persons under sentence for offenses or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses,
under arrest for an offense, a violation of probation, a violation of parole, a
violation of aftercare release, a violation of mandatory supervised release, or
awaiting a bail setting hearing or preliminary hearing, or who are sexually
dangerous persons or who are sexually violent persons.
      (2)   FIREFIGHTER means any individual, either as an employee or
volunteer, of a regularly constituted fire department of a municipality or fire
protection district who performs fire fighting duties, including, but not
limited to, the fire chief, assistant fire chief, captain, engineer, driver,
ladder person, hose person, pipe person, and any other member of a regularly
constituted fire department. FIREFIGHTER also means a person employed by the
Office of the State Fire Marshal to conduct arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building, or
other structure to rescue or to attempt to rescue any person.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever upon command refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense, commits a petty
offense.
(720 ILCS 5/31-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   A person commits tampering with public notice when he or she knowingly and
without lawful authority alters, destroys, defaces, removes or conceals any
public notice, posted according to law, during the time for which the notice
was to remain posted.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9(a)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §
133.01(A) commits a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer,
firefighter, or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a minimum
of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community service
for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court. The person shall
not be eligible for probation in order to reduce the sentence of imprisonment
or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of §
133.01 whose violation was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer,
firefighter, or correctional institution employee is guilty of a Class 4
felony.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1)
   (C)   Tampering with public notice as set out in §
133.03 is a petty offense.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9(b))
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (C)   PUBLIC PLACE for purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(720 ILCS 5/11-30(a), (b)) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, the evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of those people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement, or possession of a mold,
engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (F)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, being 725 ILCS 5/124B-
5 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20(a) - (c), (e) - (g)) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
       HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse when, taken as a whole, it does the following:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value
for minors.
       KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.    
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
       SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
       SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if the person be a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
    (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when
he or she does either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to, or
gives away to a minor any of the following, knowing that the minor is under the
age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s
true age:
          (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
          (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is
exhibited or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other
presentation.
       (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
    (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth
certificate, or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
       (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
       (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of the organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
       (5)   That an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminated in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for the harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet,
or similar means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, internet, or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age
of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state.”
    (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was sold, lent, distributed, or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers, and
providers of information services, including but not limited to internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage, or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services, or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(720 ILCS 5/11-21(a) - (d), (h)) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Public indecency as set out in §
134.01 is a Class A misdemeanor. A person convicted of a third or subsequent
violation for public indecency is guilty of a Class 4 felony. Public indecency
is a Class 4 felony if committed by a person 18 years of age or older who is on
or within 500 feet of elementary or secondary school grounds when children are
present on the grounds.
(720 ILCS 5/11-30(c))
   (C)   As set out in §
134.02, Obscenity is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent offense is a
Class 4 felony.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20(d))
   (D)   (1)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of §
134.03 is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent offense is a Class 4
felony.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or
in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or
offers to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not
actually his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing, or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
      (3)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care
in ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor. If that person utilized a computer web camera, cellular
telephone, or any other type of device to manufacture the harmful material,
then each offense is a Class 4 felony.
(720 ILCS 5/11-21(e) - (g))
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   COMPUTER. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this definition, a CRANE GAME is
an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than $25.
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this definition, a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing, or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon, or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical, or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon, or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player.
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score.
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded.
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $25.
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens, and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $25.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment, or licensed veterans establishment licensed in accordance with
the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40).
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system, or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the Internet, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under § 5g of the Illinois Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/§ 5g), § 7008 of the Savings
Bank Act (205 ILCS 5/§ 7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS
5/§ 42.7), § 5136B of the National Bank Act 12 U.S.C. § 25a), or § 4 of the
Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. § 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(720 ILCS 5/28-2)
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or
any political nomination, appointment or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to § 8 of the Illinois
Securities Law of 1953 (815 ILCS 5/8), or by or through a person exempt from
such registration under § 8, of a put, call, or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under § 3 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953
(815 ILCS 5/3) is not gambling within the meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the course of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
state or foreign government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an Internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the Internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), B(8)(a), B(8)(b), and (B)(15) below.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance.
      (2)   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest.
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state.
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40), by manufacturers, distributors, and
terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act.
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25).
      (6)   (a)   Lotteries when conducted by the State of Illinois in
accordance with the Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605). This exemption
includes any activity conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery
tickets pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Lottery Law and its rules.
         (b)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the State of Illinois under the program established in §
7.12 of the Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605/7.12).
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier.
      (8)   (a)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15).
         (b)   The purchase of raffle chances for a raffle conducted in
accordance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15).
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act (230 ILCS 30).
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull
Tabs and Jar Games Act (230 ILCS 20).
      (11)   Gambling games when authorized by the Illinois Gambling Act (230
ILCS 10).
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment, or licensed veterans establishment when conducted in
accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40).
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate.
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under § 5g of the Illinois
Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (205 ILCS 205/
7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS 305/42.7), § 5136b of
the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a), or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act
(12 U.S.C. § 1463).
      (15)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45).
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under this section
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d)) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the Illinois
Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10), the Sports Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45), or the Video
Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40). No person shall knowingly permit any premises or
property owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her control to be used
as a gambling place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(720 ILCS 5/28-3) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by the Illinois
State Police or village authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE
includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device constructed for
the reception of money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return,
or cause someone to return, on chance to the player thereof money, property, or
a right to receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed
for gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use of the device.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(a))
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited to the county
wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value integrally
related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited to the county wherein
the seizure occurs.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(b))
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Gambling, as set out in §
135.02, is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent conviction under §
135.02(A)(3) through (A)(12) is a Class 4 felony.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(c))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
 
   
136.99   Penalty
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER.  
      (1)   Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste.
      (2)   LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, cigarettes, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden
waste, newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging construction material, abandoned vehicle (as defined in the Illinois
Vehicle Code (see 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.)), motor vehicle parts, furniture,
oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind,
any object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, potentially
infectious medical waste as defined in § 3.360 of the Environmental Protection
Act (415 ILCS 5/3.360), or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature,
which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
(415 ILCS 105/3(a))
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in Chapter 70 of this Code of Ordinances.
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property in this village, or upon or into any river,
lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this village unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State Pollution
Control Board;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, or a
fire hazard;
   (D)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of any
litter, including but not limited to potentially infectious medical waste as
defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(415 ILCS 105/4) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise dispose of
litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or
private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or body of
water in this village except as permitted under §
136.02 (A)(1) through (5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(415 ILCS 105/5) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of another
person.
(415 ILCS 105/6) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(415 ILCS 105/9)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes but is not limited to any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
(415 ILCS 105/10) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons who violate any of §§
136.02 through
136.04 are subject to the penalties set out in this division (B).
      (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
136.02 through
136.04 is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. A second conviction for an offense
committed after the first conviction is a Class A misdemeanor. A third or
subsequent violation committed after a second conviction is a Class 4 felony.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed under this chapter, the court may
order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose
of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and
disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person
so convicted.
      (3)   The penalties prescribed in this division (B) are in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities
otherwise imposed or conferred by law.
      (4)   An individual convicted of violating §§
136.02 or
136.03 by disposing of litter upon a public highway may, in addition to any
other penalty, be required to maintain litter control for 30 days over a
designated portion of that highway, including, at the discretion of the agency
having jurisdiction over the section of highway in question, the site where the
offense occurred, as provided in § 50 of the State Adopt-A-Highway Act (605
ILCS 120/50).
      (5)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person
who is convicted of violating §
136.03.
(415 ILCS 105/8)
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in §
136.06, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating §
136.06. If the owner or person in control of the property has placed litter
receptacles on his or her property but the number or size of the receptacles
has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people coming on or
using his or her property as indicated by the condition and appearance of that
property, and the owner or person in control has failed to provide sufficient
or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made aware of that fact by
written notice from the police, he or she shall be fined $25 for each
receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(415 ILCS 105/10)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
 
   
137.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, see 430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 16-3
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons when he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
black-jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1))
      (2)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2))
      (3)   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque, or other building,
structure, or place used for religious worship;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5))
      (4)   Carries on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3))
      (5)   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his or
her person except when on his or her land or in his or her own abode, legal
dwelling, or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling
of another person as an invitee with that person’s permission, any pistol,
revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(5)
does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible;
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4))
      (6)   Sets a spring gun;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5))
      (7)   (a)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person, upon any
public street, alley, or other public lands within the village limits, except
when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the display of such
weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his or her land or
in his or her own abode, legal dwelling, or fixed place of business, or on the
land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an invitee with that
person’s permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm,
except that this division (A)(7) does not apply to or affect transportation of
weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
            1.   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
            2.   Are not immediately accessible;
            3.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
            4.   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
         (b)   A STUN GUN OR TASER, as used in this division (A)(7) means:
            1.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as, batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of
wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of
disrupting the person’s nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her
incapable of normal functioning; or
            2.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in such
a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10))
      (8)   Sells, manufactures, delivers, imports, possesses, or purchases any
assault weapon attachment or .50 caliber cartridge in violation of 720 ILCS 5/
24-1.9 or any explosive bullet. For purposes of this division (A)(8):
         (a)   CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed
at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellant contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap; and
         (b)   EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11))
      (9)   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like
character, or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon.
For the purposes of this division (A)(9), BILLY CLUB means a short stick or
club commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or
constructed of a solid piece of wood or other man-made material;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13))
      (10)   Manufactures, possesses, sells, or offers to sell, purchase,
manufacture, import, transfer, or use any device, part, kit, tool, accessory,
or combination of parts that is designed to and functions to increase the rate
of fire of a semiautomatic firearm above the standard rate of fire for
semiautomatic firearms that is not equipped with that device, part, or
combination of parts;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(14))
      (11)   Carries or possesses any assault weapon or .50 caliber rifle in
violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.9; or
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(15))
      (12)   Manufactures, sells, delivers, imports, or purchases any assault
weapon or .50 caliber rifle in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.9.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(16))
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Crossbows, common or compound bows and underwater spearguns are
exempted from the definition of ballistic knife as defined in division (A)(1)
above.
      (2)   The provision of division (A)(1) above prohibiting the sale,
manufacture, purchase, possession, or carrying of any knife, commonly referred
to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid Firearm
Owner’s Identification Card previously issued in his or her name by the
Illinois State Police or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of
selling or manufacturing switchblade knives.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(e))
Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Presence of weapon/substance in automobile evidence of possession, see 720
ILCS 5/24-1(d)
   Provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; bombs; possession of
weapon in place authorized to sell intoxicating beverages or at public
gathering; possession of weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or
possession of weapons on school or university grounds (all of which are
felonies), see 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6), (7), (8), and (9) and 24-1(c),
respectively
   Violations constituting misdemeanors/felonies, imprisonment terms, see 720
ILCS 5/24(b)
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01, divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(7) and (A)(9) do not apply to or affect
any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in
assisting the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and watchmen while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives, or private alarm contractors, or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004
(225 ILCS 447), while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of
their employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment. A
person shall be considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has
completed the required 20 hours of training for a private security contractor,
private detective, or private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed
private security contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor
agency and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions
of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the private security contractor, private detective, or private
alarm contractor, or employee of the licensed private security contractor,
private detective, or private alarm contractor agency at all times when he or
she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm
control card;
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of his or her duty or traveling between
sites or properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is
a member of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.). This
firearm control card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when
he or she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her
firearm control card;
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(5) while on duty in the course of any investigation for
the Commission;
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to such financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution, and who,
as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department of Professional and Financial Regulation; provided that any person
so employed has successfully completed a course of study, approved by and
supervised by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which includes theory of law
enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of weapons. A person shall be
considered to be eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the
required 20 hours of training for a security officer and 28 hours of required
firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control card by the Department
of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for renewal of firearm
control cards issued under the provisions of this division (A)(8) shall be the
same as for those issued under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private
Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225
ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.). The firearm control card shall be carried by the
security guard at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card. For purposes of this
division (A)(8), FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan
association, credit union or company providing armored car services;
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act (20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.);
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to § 7.06 of the
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Act (725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.);
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under § 3-
9005 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/3-9005);
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act (50 ILCS 710);
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff;
      (15)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; or
      (16)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(15) above to possess those
weapons.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(a))
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession, or carrying of a
black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(d))
   (C)   Section
137.01, divisions (A)(5) and (A)(7) do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, while using their firearms on those target ranges;
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(f))
      (2)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges;
      (3)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor;
      (4)   Hunters, trappers, or fishermen while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping, or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code;
      (5)   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a non-functioning
state or are not immediately accessible; and
      (6)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person’s permission.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(b))
   (D)   Section
137.01(A)(5) and (A)(7) do not apply to or affect any parole agent or parole
supervisor who meets the qualifications and conditions prescribed in § 3-14-1.5
of the Unified Code of Corrections (730 ILCS 5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6))
   (E)   Section
137.01(A)(8) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty;
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance;
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance; or
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly, or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (E)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g))
   (F)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negate any exemptions contained in this subchapter.
The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(h))
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying,
or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common
carrier is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or
affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol, revolver,
stun gun, taser, or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by 720 ILCS
5/24-1(a)(7), which is unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner’s
identification card.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(i))
Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession;
      (4)   He or she has been a patient in a mental institution within the
past five years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her
possession. For purposes of this division (A)(4):
         (a)   MENTAL INSTITUTION means any hospital, institution, clinic,
evaluation facility, mental health center, or part thereof, which is used
primarily for the care or treatment of persons with mental illness; and
         (b)   PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION means the person was admitted,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness.
      (5)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet. For
the purposes of this division (A)(6):
         (a)   EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal; and
         (b)   CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed
at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellent contained in the tube between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping, or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code (see 520 ILCS 5) or the Fish and Aquatic Life Code (see 515 ILCS
5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(720 ILCS 5/24-6)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition as set out in §
137.03 is punishable under §
130.99. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of §
137.03 constitutes a single and separate violation.
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
Editor’s Note:
   Please refer to Title XVII: Local Regulations for local material on similar
topics, including zoning.
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title and purpose
   
150.02   Jurisdiction
   
150.03   Applicability and compliance
   
150.04   Improvements
   
150.05   Bond of other surety
   
150.06   Variances
   
150.07   Changes and amendments of regulations
   
150.08   Building and occupancy permits; issuance
   
150.09   Costs for plat review and subdivision inspection
Plat Procedures
   
150.20   Preapplication conference
   
150.21   Preliminary plat
   
150.22   Preliminary plat procedures
   
150.23   Final plat
   
150.24   Certificates attached to or submitted with plat
   
150.25   Final plat procedures
   
150.26   Add-on condominium plats
Required Improvements
   
150.40   Stormwater runoff control
   
150.41   Public utilities
   
150.42   Right-of-way improvements
   
150.43   Acceptance of streets and improvements
   
150.44   Financing of certain improvements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Subdivision Control
Regulations of the village” or this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirements and
standards regulating the subdivision and platting of land within the corporate
limits and plat approval jurisdiction of the village, and for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and welfare of the community.
   (C)   The intent of these regulations is to provide for the orderly and
harmonious development of the village and surrounding areas within the
village’s planning jurisdiction.
§ 150.02 JURISDICTION.
   These subdivision control regulations shall be applicable to all lands
within the corporate limits of the village at any given time as well as the
unincorporated area within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits at
any given time.
§ 150.03 APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the owner of land subdivides or plats any land within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, the land shall be surveyed and a plat made
thereof by a registered land surveyor containing information required
hereinafter. All such plats shall then be submitted to the village pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No lot or tract of land shall be divided or redivided or in any manner
utilized for the purpose of erecting more than one principal building or unit
on such lot or tract of land without subdividing or resubdividing as set forth
in this chapter.
   (C)   No plat of any subdivision of more than one lot and no dedication,
vacation, annexation, or plat of survey under 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq., shall be
valid nor entitled to record unless and until the same has been approved by the
Board of Trustees in accordance with procedures and standards hereinafter
provided, and no such plat, within the unincorporated area within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits at any given time, shall be approved without
compliance with the procedures and standards required as hereinafter set forth.
§ 150.04 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Before approval of any final plat, the subdivider shall agree in a
written Statement of Intent and Agreement, or S.I.A., to be submitted to and
approved by the Board of Trustees, to install and construct right-of-way,
utility, and other public improvements, to pay all required fees, and to make
all required donations in accordance with the requirements of the ordinances of
the village. The S.I.A. shall state the approximate date when installation of
public improvements will commence and a reasonable date for completion of the
public improvements. If the S.I.A. does not otherwise provide a completion
date, the improvements shall be completed within three years of the date of
final plat approval and recording. An S.I.A. may be amended to extend the time
for commencing and completing public improvements. An S.I.A. shall be binding
upon the successors, heirs, and assigns of the subdivider or developer.
   (B)   Before approval of any final plat or S.I.A. in the platted
subdivision, the subdivider shall guarantee the completion of the public
improvements to be installed or constructed in accordance with the S.I.A. and
the ordinances of the village, together with all other commitments by the
subdivider, by submitting a corporate surety bond or other financing surety, in
a form to be approved by the Village Attorney. For the purposes of this
chapter, OTHER FINANCING SURETY shall be defined as letters of credit, impound
letters or similar devices made by a sound and reputable financial institution
whereby a sum of money is set aside and restricted as payment for the
performance of specific obligations by the subdivider and which are irrevocable
except by prior notice to the village.
   (C)   A subdivider may freely assign, transfer, or convey property within a
platted subdivision, but such assignment, transfer, or conveyance shall not
affect the principal obligation of the subdivider to perform its obligations
under this chapter or an executed S.I.A. without a written amendment to the
S.I.A. The conveyance of property within a platted subdivision to grantees of
such a subdivider shall render the grantees responsible only for performance of
a pro-rata share of such obligations in the event of default by the subdivider
and the surety.
§ 150.05 BOND OR OTHER SURETY.
   (A)   A corporate surety bond or other financing surety submitted in
accordance with §
150.04 to guarantee the completion of public improvements shall be in an amount
equal to 110% of the estimated cost of installing and constructing the public
improvements and shall provide as follows:
      (1)   An expiration date not less than one year from the date of
issuance, or an express provision that the surety or bond will not expire prior
to completion, and acceptance by the Board of Trustees of the public
improvements;
      (2)   That written notice shall be given by certified or registered mail
to the Village Clerk as to the expiration date, if any, of the surety bond not
less than 60 days before the expiration, and that the surety or bond shall not
expire absent this notice;
      (3)   That failure of the subdivider to complete the public improvements
secured by the surety or bond prior to the scheduled completion date shall be
considered a default by the subdivider and the issuing institution;
      (4)   That failure of the subdivider to submit a new surety or bond in
accordance with this section upon expiration of the surety or bond shall be
considered a default by the subdivider and the issuing institution;
      (5)   That the surety or bond shall be irrevocable and shall be clearly
marked “irrevocable;”
      (6)   That the surety or bond will not be discharged or reduced by the
issuing institution except upon written certificate of the Village Clerk that
the surety or bond may be discharged or reduced in accordance with this section
and the amount of the discharge or reduction;
      (7)   That the issuing institution will pay all attorney’s fees and other
costs reasonably incurred in enforcing collection of the financing surety in
the event that the issuer wrongfully fails to honor the village’s demand for
payment under the terms of the surety or bond.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) may be modified or waived upon
motion, resolution, or ordinance of the Village Board if the Board first
determines that the requirements of division (A) would impose an unreasonable
hardship upon the subdivider and that the absence of a surety or bond submitted
in accordance with division (A) will not materially affect the guarantee that
the requirements of this chapter will be met.
   (C)   A subdivider may, at its option, submit separate sureties or bonds for
each public improvement to be accepted.
   (D)   A surety or bond submitted in accordance with this section to
guarantee the completion of public improvements may be reduced or partially
discharged prior to completion and acceptance of such public improvements by
the Village Board upon the following showing by the subdivider and the
certificate of the Village Engineer:
      (1)   A sworn statement by the subdivider’s engineer of the cost of work
performed and labor and materials provided toward the completion of the
improvement, an estimation of the amount and cost of work, labor, and material
remaining to be performed or provided in order to complete the improvement; and
      (2)   Written waivers of lien for all labor or material provided for
public improvement where public funds are involved.
   (E)   Any partial reduction or discharge of a surety or bond submitted in
accordance with this section to guarantee completion of public improvements
shall be subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   No partial reduction or discharge approved on account of work
performed and labor and materials provided shall exceed the cost of the work,
labor, or materials;
      (2)   No partial reduction or discharge shall be approved to the extent
that it would cause the balance of funds remaining to be less than 110% of the
estimated cost of work, labor, and material remaining to be performed or
provided in order, to complete the improvements; and
      (3)   A partial reduction or discharge of the financing surety may be
approved upon certificate of the Village Engineer; however, the certificate
shall not be construed as partial or complete acceptance of the improvement for
which the work was performed or labor and materials provided.
   (F)   When the subdivider has supplied all of the documents or materials
required by this chapter to be submitted in support of its request for
discharge of a surety or bond or acceptance of the public improvement as
completed, the Village Board shall approve or disapprove the request within 30
days of the subdivider’s application. If the subdivider’s application is
disapproved, a written statement of the reasons for the disapproval shall be
given the subdivider. The subdivider and the Village Board may mutually agree
to extend the 30-day period. In addition, the 30-day period shall be extended
as necessary in the event that weather prevents the village from verifying the
facts contained in the subdivider’s application.
   (G)   A surety or bond submitted in accordance with this section shall be
discharged upon acceptance by the Village Board of all improvements for which
the surety or bond was submitted and submission of a maintenance bond
guaranteeing the improvement against defects in materials or workmanship in the
amount of 10% of the estimated cost of the improvement to be effective for a
period of one year from the date of acceptance.
   (H)   This section shall be binding upon and applicable to all subdividers,
developers, and successors in title of property which is subdivided or platted
in accordance with this chapter.
§ 150.06 VARIANCES.
   Where the subdivider or developer can show that a provision or provisions of
the standards or improvements required by this chapter would cause unnecessary
hardship if strictly adhered to, or where because of the small size of the
tract of land or topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site or
surrounding conditions a departure may be made without destroying the intent
and purpose of the provisions of this chapter, the Village Board, after
consideration thereof and recommendation thereon by the Plan Commission, may
waive or modify any requirements of this chapter to the extent the Board deems
just and proper.
§ 150.07 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions and regulations for subdivision control herein
contained in this chapter may be amended from time to time by the Village Board
through the enactment of an amending ordinance which shall become effective as
of the date of its passage unless otherwise provided by the Board.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may, but is not required, from time to time to
prepare and recommend in writing any proposed change or addition to these
provisions and regulations; however, no public hearing before the Plan
Commission or any commission or board shall be required prior to the passage of
any such amendatory ordinance.
§ 150.08 BUILDING AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No building permit or occupancy permit shall be issued for any
building, structure, or improvement within a subdivision approved in accordance
with this chapter unless a valid and enforceable corporate surety bond or other
financing surety in accordance with §
150.05 is on file with the village to guarantee completion of improvements in
the subdivision which the subdivider is required to install but which are not
yet complete and/or accepted.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, building and
occupancy permits shall be issued to individual lot owners (other than the
defaulting subdivider or developer of the subdivision), even though a valid and
enforceable corporate surety bond or other financing surety is not on file with
the village, if the lot owner deposits cash or a separate corporate surety bond
or other financing surety with the village in the amount of 125% of that lot’s
pro-rata share of the estimated cost of all improvements remaining to be
completed as required by this chapter or an applicable S.I.A., the estimated
cost to be determined by the Village Engineer. Such funds shall be held for use
by the village for the completion of the remaining improvements. Upon
completion of all these improvements by the village, a pro-rata share of any
remaining funds deposited under this division or surety proceeds shall be
refunded to the lot owner. In the event that all such improvements are
completed by the subdivider or developer as required by this chapter or an
applicable S.I.A., all the funds shall be refunded to the lot owner.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building, structure, or improvement unless the owner of the land upon which the
building, structure, or improvement is to be constructed has complied with the
requirements of this chapter as applied to the property.
§ 150.09 COSTS FOR PLAT REVIEW AND SUBDIVISION INSPECTION.
   In consideration of the expenses incurred by the village, both in
professional and consulting fees, and in time expended by village employees
reviewing and inspecting subdivision improvements, the developer or subdivider
shall pay to the village 1.5% of the estimated cost, as approved by the Village
Engineer, of construction of the public improvements in the proposed
subdivision. The payment shall be due prior to the recording of the final plat
by the village.
PLAT PROCEDURES
§ 150.20 PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of an application for the approval of a
preliminary plat, the subdivider may consult with the Plan Commission in order
to gain its advice. In so doing both the subdivider and the Plan Commission can
reach mutual conclusions regarding the general concept and objectives of the
proposed development and possible effects on the neighborhood and the
community.
   (B)   A preapplication conference with the village staff may be conducted at
the discretion of the Plan Commission or upon the request of the developer. Any
meeting of the Plan Commission shall be a part of a regularly scheduled
meeting, be open to the public, and be on the agenda in advance of the meeting.
Recommendations during preapplication meetings or concept reviews are advisory
only for mutual benefit, do not require formal application or fee and do not
bind the village to approve any or all of the preliminary plat.
§ 150.21 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   When any owner of land lying within the corporate limits of the
village or within the area of platting jurisdiction of the village desires to
subdivide such lands, the owner shall submit to the Village Clerk, along with
an application for development approval and the application fee as set forth in
Title XVII of this code of ordinances, a preliminary plat on tracing cloth,
mylar, or equivalent material with 15 prints or copies thereof, folded to
approximately nine-inch by 12-inch size, at a scale of 100 feet to the inch and
shall show on its face the following information:
      (1)   Name under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
      (2)   Legal description of property platted and total acreage included;
      (3)   Date, scale, and north point;
      (4)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, engineer, and land
surveyor preparing the plat;
      (5)   The location, widths, and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, parks, playgrounds, and other open spaces proposed to be
dedicated for public use;
      (6)   The blocks and lots into which the project is proposed to be
subdivided in sufficient detail to determine the character of the development;
and
      (7)   Location and approximate dimensions of any sites to be reserved or
dedicated for parks, playgrounds, drainageways, or other public use or which
are to be used for multi-family housing, shopping centers, church sites, or
other nonpublic uses not requiring individual lots, including dimensions and
acreage.
   (B)   The following information shall also be provided as part of the
preliminary plat submittal:
      (1)   The character of the immediately contiguous lands to the proposed
subdivision to a minimum distance of 200 showing the subdivision thereof, if
subdivided, and the location and dimension of public streets, alleys, public
utility easements, street pavements, sanitary sewer mains, stormwater mains,
retention and detention areas, water supply mains, and electrical distribution
systems, if any, adjoining the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   A large scale information map showing the location of the
preliminary plat area;
      (3)   The zoning classification under the village or county zoning
ordinance, and the zoning of all surrounding land indicating the applicable
zoning authority (whether village or county);
      (4)   The location within the proposed subdivision of any existing public
streets, alleys, public utility easements, street pavements, sanitary sewer
mains, storm sewer mains, water supply mains, watercourses, bridges, culverts,
electrical distribution system, and similar facilities; and the location of
existing buildings, if any;
      (5)   Complete sidewalk plan or pedestrian access and circulation plan;
      (6)   Location of existing corporate boundary lines at or near the
proposed subdivision;
      (7)   Ground elevations on the tract. For land that slopes less than .5%,
show one foot contours; show spot elevations at all breaks in grades, along all
drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more than 100 feet
apart in all directions. For land that slopes more than .5%, show two-foot
contours. Refer to U.S.G.S. datum in compiling data;
      (8)   Floodplain lines are to be delineated according to the applicable
U.S.G.S. Flood Quadrangle or other documents adopted by the village as part of
floodplain regulations (
Chapter 151);
      (9)   Preliminary engineering. Sufficient detail will be required to
convey the general basis of design for the sewer, water, electric distribution,
stormwater runoff control, and flood control facilities;
      (10)   Traffic and other impact studies, if any;
      (11)   Any other information or data that the subdivider feels the Plan
Commission may require for the full and complete consideration of the proposed
plat of subdivision;
      (12)   A summary of all restrictions, if any, intended to be imposed by
the final plat or by deeds of conveyance including the location, use, height,
and bulk of buildings and any applicable land use, design limitations, or
planning schedules which the developer or subdivider represents to the Plan
Commission or Board of Trustees as restrictions upon the developer’s intended
design, development, and use of the subject property; and
      (13)   Geological and soil analysis examining the adequacy of the site
for the development environment.
   (C)   All documents, plats, supporting data, and the like and revisions
thereof shall be dated and properly titled and the date utilized when
referencing these provisions.
§ 150.22 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Developer action. The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance
with this chapter and the subdivider shall file 15 copies along with
application for development approval to the Village Clerk at least one week in
advance of the meeting at which the Plan Commission shall review the
preliminary plat.
   (B)   Plan Commission action on preliminary plat. The Clerk shall refer the
application to the Plan Commission, which shall, after receiving the
preliminary plat, hold deliberations and request additional information as it
deems necessary to show compliance with the ordinances of the village. All
required material must be received at least one week prior to the Plan
Commission session at which it is to be considered. If the proposed plat of
subdivision is not satisfactory as presented, the Plan Commission shall permit
the subdivider to make changes and additions required by the Plan Commission to
meet the requirements of this chapter before submission of its recommendation
to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Plan Commission recommendation. The Plan Commission shall make a
recommendation of approval or disapproval of the plat. The Plan Commission will
forward the recommendation in writing to the Village Board including any
conditions of approval or the reasons for disapproval and the roll call vote. A
recommendation of the Plan Commission to disapprove a preliminary plat shall
not prohibit the subdivider from seeking Board approval of the proposed plat.
   (D)   Village Board approval of preliminary plat. After a recommendation on
the preliminary plat by the Plan Commission, it shall be returned to the
Village Board for its action. After the Board has satisfied themselves that the
preliminary plat is in accordance with the requirements set forth in this
chapter, and that the Plan Commission has inspected all phases of the
improvements and made its recommendation, the Board may accept, modify, or
reject the recommendation of the Plan Commission in its action upon the plat.
The Board may require special conditions in the approval of the preliminary
plat as it may deem necessary to ensure conformity with the requirements of the
village ordinances. Upon rejection of a preliminary plat, the plat shall be
returned to the subdivider by the Village Board with a written statement
setting forth reasons for the disapproval. An approved preliminary plat shall
remain on file with the Village Clerk.
   (E)   Review duration. The Plan Commission shall make its recommendation on
the proposed preliminary plat within 30 days of referral to the Plan Commission
or the filing by the applicant of the last item of supporting data, whichever
date is later, unless the time is extended by mutual consent. The Village Board
shall accept or reject the plat within 30 days after its next regular stated
meeting following the action of the Plan Commission.
§ 150.23 FINAL PLAT.
   A final plat shall be prepared on permanent material, tracing cloth, mylar,
or equivalent so as to be suitable for recording with the County Recorder of
Deeds at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet. All revision dates shall be shown
as well as the following:
   (A)   Contents.
      (1)   The name and signature of the owner of record of the property;
      (2)   The name, signature and seal of the registered land surveyor who
prepared the plat, and the date thereof;
      (3)   The legal description of the property subdivided;
      (4)   All measurements, dimensions, data, monuments, angular and linear
dimensions, and certificates shall be in accordance with §
150.24 of this chapter, the Plat Act as set forth in 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.,
and any other statutes or county requirements pertaining to recording;
      (5)   All easements required for installation of utilities (electric,
water, wastewater, gas, telephone and the like) along with a statement that
dedicates easements as approved by the village;
      (6)   All scenic, access, drainage, and other easements along with a
statement that dedicates the easement as approved by the village; and
      (7)   Topographical and profile studies required by § 2 of the Plat Act
(765 ILCS 205/2), if not previously supplied with the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Supporting documents with final plat. The following supporting
documents and data shall be submitted with the final plat:
      (1)   A statement of intent and agreement by the subdivider, setting
forth the nature, kind, character, and the extent of all the improvements that
will be constructed in the subdivision, together with complete plans, detailed
final engineering, profiles, and specifications clearly describing the same,
with agreement to construct the same in accordance therewith, at his or her own
expense, within the time limit fixed by the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Any special studies or additional items required by the village;
      (3)   Cost estimates and construction plans of all public improvements
and financing surety as required hereinafter;
      (4)   A description and justification for any variation from the
preliminary plat and a description of any external factors which have changed
since the preliminary plat affecting the layout of the final plat; and
      (5)   Certificates and additional items required by §
150.24.
§ 150.24 CERTIFICATES ATTACHED TO OR SUBMITTED WITH PLAT.
   Subject to any amendments to the Plat Act or county requirements in addition
to this section, the certificates to be attached to or provided with the plat
and duly executed by the proper officers and persons before the plat is
approved by the Village Board and recorded, shall include the following:
   (A)   A letter from the Village Engineer approving the construction plans.
This letter shall not be recorded but shall be retained by the Village Clerk;
   (B)   Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the state or the
relevant local highway authority as set forth in § 2 of the Plat Act (765 ILCS
205/2);
   (C)   Approval of the local health authority with respect to sewage disposal
systems if required by § 2 of the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2);
   (D)   The certificate of a registered state land surveyor attesting to the
accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown, as required by
§ 2 of the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2);
   (E)   Notarized acknowledgments of the plat by the owner or a duly
authorized attorney, as required by § 2 of the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2);
   (F)   Certification of the owner as to what provisions have been made for
perpetual maintenance of drainage areas and common areas. This certificate
shall not be recorded but shall be retained by the Village Clerk;
   (G)   All covenants or restrictions including homeowner association
covenants relating to the property;
   (H)   A signed statement of a registered professional engineer and the owner
of the land or his or her duly authorized attorney respecting drainage, as
required by § 2 of the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2);
   (I)   A certificate in substantially the following form:
The final plat of this subdivision is recommended to the Village Board for [ ]
approval by the Village of         Plan Commission subject to the
certifications set forth in Section 150.24 of the Village Code of Ordinances;
[ ] approval subject to the following conditions: [insert conditions]; [ ]
disapproval for the following reasons: [insert reasons].
                        By:
                                                         
                         Chairman, Village of       Plan Commission
                        Dated:
                                                       
   (J)   A certificate in substantially the following form:
      Approved by the Board of Trustees of the Village of              the
       day of
                     , 20        .
                                                                                                                              Mayor
                        Attest:
                                                      
                              Village Clerk
§ 150.25 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application. 
      (1)   Application for final approval of a plat shall be made to the
Village Clerk, along with the application fee and any impact fee set forth in
Title XVII, not later than one year after preliminary approval has been granted
for all parts of the area preliminarily platted. If after one year from the
preliminary plat, no submission of a final plat in conformance with the
procedures contained herein has occurred, the preliminary plat may be declared
void by the Board of Trustees and returned to the subdivider with an
explanation of the action.
      (2)   The preliminary and final plat may be filed and approved
simultaneously if all requirements hereof are met. However, if desired by the
subdivider, the final plat may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which he or she proposes to record and develop at that time;
further, if the development is staged, all staged final plats shall conform
substantially to the preliminary plat as approved. Approval for the final plat
may be submitted in stages with each stage reflecting a portion of the approved
preliminary plat which is proposed to be recorded and developed; however, the
portion shall conform to all requirements of these regulations. The final plat
shall be essentially in accord with the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Plan Commission action. The Clerk shall refer the final plat to the
Plan Commission. After review of the final plat the Plan Commission shall
recommend approval or disapproval and the reasons therefor, to the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson of the Plan Commission, after formal approval of the
Board of Trustees, shall suitably endorse the plat in the name of the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   Statement of intent and agreement. The Village Attorney and Engineer
will review and recommend all supporting documents, including engineering and
financial surety documentation. A statement of intent and agreement (S.I.A.)
shall be completed by the subdivider which summarizes and includes all
agreements between the subdivider and the village.
   (D)   Approval of final plat. When and if the Board of Trustees is satisfied
with the final plat and S.I.A. along with all improvements, conditions,
documents, and financial surety hereinafter noted, pertaining to the
subdivision, the Board shall by motion or resolution approve the plat and
S.I.A. and authorize and direct the President and the Clerk to sign the plat
for and in the name of the village, and the Clerk shall attach hereto the
Corporate Seal.
   (E)   Recording of final plat. The Village Clerk shall have the final plat
and S.I.A. recorded in the office of the County Recorder. This final plat after
recording shall be returned to the office of the Clerk and a copy thereof shall
be maintained on file. The original of the final plat shall be returned to the
subdivider.
   (F)   Review duration. When the developer has supplied all drawings, maps,
and other documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in
support thereof, and if all this material meets village requirements, the
Village Board shall approve the proposed plat within 30 days from the date of
filing application for approval of the final plat or within 30 days from the
date of filing the last required document, whichever is later. The applicant
and the Village Board may mutually agree to extend the 30-day period.
§ 150.26 ADD-ON CONDOMINIUM PLATS.
   (A)   Representation of plat. Whenever additional property is being added to
an add-on condominium in accordance with the provisions of 765 ILCS 605/5, as
now or hereafter amended, the developer or authorized officer of the
condominium shall prepare a condominium plat on permanent material, tracing
cloth, mylar, or equivalent so as to be suitable for recording with the County
Recorder of Deeds at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet. All revision dates
shall be shown as well as the following:
      (1)   Legal description of the property subject to the add-on
condominium;
      (2)   The name, signature, and seal of the registered land surveyor who
prepared the plat and the date thereof;
      (3)   All measurements, details and other matters as are required by the
Illinois Revised Statutes to be shown on an add-on condominium plat.
   (B)   Developer action. Application for add-on condominium plat approval
shall be submitted to the Clerk, together with 15 copies of such plat and the
application fee and any impact fees as set forth in Title XVII of this code of
ordinances.
   (C)   Plan Commission action. The Clerk shall refer the application to the
Plan Commission, which shall review the application and plat and render a
report to the Board of Trustees. The Plan Commission is authorized to recommend
approval of an add-on condominium plat to the Board if it determines that the
add-on condominium plat is in substantial conformance to the terms and
conditions of the final subdivision or planned unit development plat approved
for the property. If the Plan Commission determines that the add-on condominium
plat is not in substantial conformance to the terms and conditions of the
previously approved final subdivision plat, the Plan Commission shall recommend
disapproval of the plat, and the reasons therefor, to the Board.
   (D)   Village Board approval. After a recommendation on the add-on
condominium plat by the Plan Commission and after the Board has satisfied
itself that the proposed add-on condominium plat is in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and in substantial conformance with the terms and
conditions of the previously approved final plat for the property, the Board
shall, by motion or resolution, approve the plat and authorize and direct the
President and Village Clerk to sign and attest the plat for and in the name of
the village, and the Clerk shall attach the Corporate Seal thereto. If the
Board determines that the add-on condominium plat is not in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter or is not in conformance with the terms and
conditions of the previously approved final plat for the property, the Board
may reject the plat or require such special conditions to approval of the plat
as may be necessary to ensure conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and/or the terms and conditions of the previously approved final plat for the
property. Upon disapproval, a written statement setting forth the reasons for
the disapproval shall be given the developer.
   (E)   Recording of plat. The Village Clerk shall cause the add-on
condominium plat to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
The add-on condominium plat, after recording, shall be returned to the office
of the Village Clerk and a copy thereof shall be maintained on file. The
original of the add-on condominium plat shall be returned to the developer.
   (F)   Review duration. When the developer has supplied all of the drawings
and documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in support
thereof, and if all such material meets village requirements, the Village Board
of Trustees shall approve the proposed add-on condominium plat within 30 days
from receipt of the report of the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall
render its report within 30 days of the filing of the application for approval
of the add-on condominium plat or within 30 days from the date of filing the
last required document, whichever is later. The applicant and the Board may
mutually agree to extend the 30-day period.
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 150.40 STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL.
   An adequate system of stormwater runoff control drainage shall be
constructed and installed in accordance with sound engineering practices as
determined by the Village Engineer. Compliance must be maintained with the
floodplain, zoning, and all other ordinances of the village and with the Plat
Act (765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.). All natural water drainageways shall be
preserved at their natural gradient unless otherwise determined by the Village
Engineer. Drainage channels, slopes, and swales will be established on the lots
by the developer for the convenience of moving surface water to the street or
public storm sewer and are to be maintained continuously by the lot owner. No
material shall be moved from or placed on any lot which obstructs, retards or
changes the direction of water flow through these channels or swales.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.41 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewer mains shall be constructed to village
standards and procedures throughout the entire subdivision in such manner as to
serve adequately all lots and tracts with connection to a public sanitary
sewage system. Private septic systems are allowed if public sewer service is
not readily available and all the requirements of the County Health Officer and
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or other appropriate governmental
agencies are met. All areas within the village limits or areas upon annexation
shall be required to connect onto a public system when it becomes readily
available unless within a zoning district specifically allowing private septic
systems.
   (B)   Water supply. Water mains shall be constructed to village standards
and procedures throughout the entire subdivision in such manner as to serve
adequately all lots and tracts with connection to such public system, together
with shut-off valves and fire hydrants. Private well systems are allowed if
public water service cannot be made available and all applicable local, county,
and state codes are met. All areas within the corporate limits and all areas
upon annexation shall be required to connect onto a public system when
available unless within a zoning district specifically allowing private wells.
   (C)   Electric and gas service. Electric and gas service will be provided
for all areas within the village.
   (D)   Drainage easements. Designated drainage shall be placed in drainage
easements. A minimum five-foot easement will be provided for any drainage
facility which collects or channelizes individual lot drainage. A minimum 10-
foot easement will be provided for any drainage facility which collects or
transports stormwater drainage from over two individual lots. A drainage
easement shall be granted for all areas designated as retention or detention in
the drainage plans of the subdivision. An easement of a minimum of five feet by
five feet offset from any drainage facility and outside any easement required
for drainage shall be provided for electrical transformers and telephone
junction centers. All required easements shall be shown on the engineering
plans required by this chapter. Easements required by this division may also be
used for the installation of utility facilities which do not interfere with the
use of easements for drainage purposes.
   (E)   Telephone boxes and electrical transformers. Electrical transformers
and telephone junction boxes shall not be placed in any portion of a designated
drainage or stormwater control facility.
   (F)   Storm drainage systems. An adequate storm drainage system shall be
designed in accordance with the storm drainage regulations of the village.
      (1)   There shall be submitted for approval by the Village Engineer, at
the time of final plat approval, a lot grading and foundation elevation plan.
It shall show at each lot corner the proposed U.S.G.S. elevation for that
point. Arrows drawn along all lot lines shall show the direction of drainage
flow. The top of the foundation shall be shown by a U.S.G.S. elevation. That
elevation shall be noted inside the symbol for the structure location on the
lot. Where there is more than one foundation level for the structure, the
elevation for the lowest foundation level shall be shown.
      (2)   The foundation elevation shall be such that the lot drainage be
designed to run away from the top of the foundation. In the event that
conditions dictate that some parts of the lot be higher than the structure
foundation, the grading plan will show specific drainage configurations for the
lot specifying that all drainage is directed away from the foundation.
   (G)   Engineering and inspection. Improvements for sanitary sewer, water
main, storm sewer, road, concrete curb and gutter, electric street lighting
lines, electrical distribution system, drainage, and appurtenances thereto,
shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for approval before final
disposition has been made of the subdivision plat. Any reports required by the
applicable soil and water conservation service shall also be submitted.
   (H)   The village standards and practices referred to in divisions (A)
through (G) above shall be established by ordinance and included in Title XVII
of this Code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.42 RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Streets. Public streets shall be provided to afford convenient access
to all property within the subdivision. Private streets are permitted only if
they are required by the design or ownership of the subdivision and can be
demonstrated to be to the long term benefit of the community. Private streets
are permitted only if covenants or agreements acceptable to the village are
provided which guarantee maintenance of the streets in perpetuity at no cost to
the village. Private streets will not be allowed if a public street is
feasible.
      (1)   The proposed street system shall extend existing adjoining streets.
If the extension is not practical, the Plan Commission may recommend otherwise.
      (2)   Where, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the Plan Commission may
recommend that proposed streets be extended by dedication to the boundary of
the property being platted.
      (3)   The street layout shall recognize the functional classification of
the various types of streets and shall be developed and located in proper
relation to existing and proposed streets, to the topography, to such natural
features as rivers and tree growth, to public convenience and safety, to the
proposed use of the land to be served by the streets, and to the most
advantageous development of adjoining areas. The subdivision shall be designed
to provide each lot with satisfactory access to a public street.
   (B)   Half streets. In the event any proposed street right-of-way is at the
edge of a subdivision and only one-half of the proposed right-of-way falls
within the subdivision, the road will be built to allow two moving lanes of
traffic (24 feet of pavement) as a minimum. If the road benefits primarily the
subdivider, the Plan Commission may recommend full improvement of the road.
   (C)   Access streets. Where deemed necessary, the Plan Commission may
recommend access streets be required to service areas fronting on major
thoroughfares.
   (D)   Alleys. The Plan Commission may recommend alleys or private service
roads be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts intended for business,
commercial, industrial, and multi-family residential building uses.
   (E)   Curbs and gutters. Suitable curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
both sides of all streets in accordance with standards established by
ordinance.
   (F)   Sidewalks. Suitable sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of
all streets in accordance with standards established by ordinance.
   (G)   Street lighting. Street lighting, including underground service cable,
shall be provided by the subdivider throughout a subdivision, using material,
equipment, and methods approved by the applicable electric utility supplying
service to the area.
   (H)   Street signs. Street signs, as required by village ordinances, shall
be provided at all street intersections.
   (I)   Trees. If any trees or plants are proposed to be planted on any part
of the subdivision devoted to public use, the species of trees and location
thereof shall be subject to the approval and direction of the Village Engineer.
   (J)   Off-street parking. All off-street parking requirements shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the village zoning ordinance and other
provisions of the village code.
   (K)   Bench marks. Bench marks certified and approved by the Village
Engineer are required prior to the issuance of a building permit in proximity
to the site for which the permit is required. Temporary bench marks are allowed
until the time that permanent bench marks are installed. Permanent bench marks
shall be established as directed by the Village Engineer.
   (L)   Establishment. The village standards and practices referred to in
divisions (A) through (K) above shall be established by ordinance and included
in Title XVII of this Code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.43 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All improvement plans shall be submitted by the Plan Commission to the
Village Engineer and the Utility Superintendent for approval before final plat
approval. Fees for the review and inspection of any improvement are included in
the subdivision review fee provided in §
150.09.
   (B)   Upon completion of the construction in place of all service
connections with utility mains and electrical distribution systems, three
copies of an accurate map or maps showing the exact location of all mains and
the electrical distribution systems, together with manholes, shutoff valves,
and other similar facilities being a part thereof, by distances in feet from
street lines, and the side lot lines, approved by the Village Engineer shall be
filed with the Village Clerk, who shall retain one copy in the permanent
records of the village and give the other copies to appropriate village
employees for their official files.
   (C)   Improvements shall be acceptable by the Board of Trustees after
completion of certification by the Village Engineer that all construction is in
accordance with previously approved plans and specifications. No permanent
connections shall be made to sanitary sewer or water facilities or electrical
distribution systems by the subdivider, his or her agents and employees, until
after the certification has been made by the Engineer and approval by the
Village Board, and then only after proper fees and monies have been paid to the
village, as set forth in this chapter, and connection fees as set forth
elsewhere in this code of ordinances. Further, the village shall not be liable
for any damages that may occur on any dedicated road within a new subdivision
that has not been accepted as completed by motion of the Village Board, and the
subdivider, his or her agents and employees, shall save the village free and
harmless from any and all claims that may be submitted.
   (D)   No improvements shall be accepted by the village until the subdivider
shall provide a cash deposit, irrevocable letters of credit (in a form approved
by the Village Attorney), or a maintenance bond equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of the improvements. This deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory
performance of the improvements constructed within the subdivision and shall be
held by the village for a period of 12 months after acceptance of the
facilities by the village. After the 12 months, the deposit shall be refunded
if no defects in materials or workmanship have developed, or if any defects
have developed, then the balance of the deposit shall be refunded after
reimbursement of the village for amounts expended in correcting defective
improvements. The deposit under this division shall be made immediately upon
completion and approval of the construction of the improvements, and the
performance guarantee for the improvements shall thereupon be released.
   (E)   The subdivider shall be responsible for keeping clear of ice and snow
all dedicated streets within the subdivision which have been improved but not
yet accepted by the village. If the subdivider fails to clear ice and snow from
any such street within six hours of any snowfall, the failure shall be
considered a violation of the provisions of this section.
   (F)   The subdivider may fulfill the obligations imposed by division (E)
above by entering into an agreement with the village whereby the village shall
clear the streets of ice and snow in consideration of the subdivider’s
agreement to hold the village harmless for any damage to subdivision street
improvements resulting from ice and snow removal, and to repair any such
damages prior to acceptance of the street improvements by the village.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.44 FINANCING OF CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter requires the installation of water mains,
sanitary sewers, drains, other facilities for sewers and drains, the
construction of any roadways, or the installation of any traffic signals or
other traffic related improvements as a condition of either the acceptance of a
preliminary or of a final subdivision or plat, and where, in the opinion of the
Board of Trustees the facilities may be used for the benefit of property not in
the subdivision, and the improvements or other facilities are to be dedicated
to the public, the Board of Trustees may by contract with the subdivider agree
to reimburse and may reimburse the subdivider for a portion of the cost of the
improvements or other facilities from fees charged to owners of the property
not within the subdivision, when and as collected from the owners.
   (B)   The contract shall describe the property outside the subdivision that
may reasonably be expected to benefit from the improvements or other facilities
required to be constructed under the contract and shall specify the amount or
proportion of the cost of the improvements or other facilities that is to be
incurred primarily for the benefit of that property.
   (C)   The contract shall provide that the village shall collect fees charged
to owners of property not within the subdivision prior to the connection to and
use of the improvements or other facilities by the respective properties of
each owner.
   (D)   The contract may contain other and further provisions and agreements
concerning the construction, installation, completion, and acceptance of the
facilities, roadways or other improvements that the Board of Trustees in its
sole authority may deem proper and may also provide for the payment to the
subdivider of a reasonable amount of interest on the amount expended by him or
her to complete the improvements, the interest to be calculated from and after
the date of completion and acceptance of the facilities, roadways and other
improvements.
(65 ILCS 5/9-5-1)
   (E)   Any contract entered into between the Board of Trustees and a
subdivider pursuant to division (A) shall be filed with the County Recorder.
The recording of the contract in this manner shall serve to notify persons
interested in the property of the fact that there will be a charge in relation
to the property for the connection to and use of the facilities constructed
under the contract.
(65 ILCS 5/9-5-2)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Authority; purpose
   
151.02   Provisions for accomplishing the purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Base flood elevation
   
151.05   Development permit
   
151.06   Preventing increased damages
   
151.07   Protecting buildings
   
151.08   Other development requirements
   
151.09   Variances
   
151.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 AUTHORITY; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the powers granted by
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8, and 11-31-2.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing the flood or
drainage hazard to others;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (3)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (5)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blight areas;
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the village; and
      (7)   To provide for the orderly growth and development of an environment
that is especially sensitive to changes from human activity.
§ 151.02 PROVISIONS FOR ACCOMPLISHING THE PURPOSE.
   (A)   All new development proposals in the special flood hazard areas shall
be reviewed and approved by the responsible village official.
   (B)   This review is to ensure the following:
      (1)   New development will not change the flow of flood or other surface
drainage waters so that other properties become more susceptible to damage;
      (2)   New developments will not create special hazards or nuisances when
flooded; and
      (3)   New buildings and major improvements to existing buildings will not
be subject to damage by the base flood.
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASC or AREA OF STATE CONCERN.  That portion of riverine SFHAs where permits
are required. The ASC for the village is generally identified as such on the
Area of State Concern Map of the village identified in Title XVII of this code
of ordinances.
   BASE FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. The base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in §
151.04 below.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank in order that
such tanks will be constructed to the same flood damage protection standards.
The term also includes recreation vehicles and travel trailers which have been
installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any manmade change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or an
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
         (b)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities or facilities,
construction of roads, bridges, or similar projects valued at more than $1,000;
         (c)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, or fences;
         (d)   Filling, dredging, grading, excavating, or other nonagricultural
alterations of the ground surface;
         (e)   Storage of materials; or
         (f)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include:
         (a)   The maintenance of existing building and facilities, such as
reroofing or resurfacing roads;
         (b)   Repairs made to a damaged building that do not change the
building’s exterior dimensions and that are valued at less than 50% of the
value of the building before the damage occurred; or
         (c)   Gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the SFHA required to store and convey the base
flood. If not prohibited, building or placing obstructions in a floodway will
increase flood damages to other properties.
   FPE or FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood, plus 1
foot, at any given location in the SFHA.
   MOBILE HOME. Includes mobile homes, manufactured homes and pre-fabricated
buildings.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the village that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs of the
village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the
village identified in Title XVII of this code of ordinances.
§ 151.04 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood according to the
best data available to the State Water Survey’s Floodplain Information
Repository. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, that party
may finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to the State Water Survey.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the SFHAs of the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the
village prepared by the Federal Insurance Administration identified in Title
XVII of this code of ordinances.
§ 151.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall commence any development in the
SFHA without first obtaining a development permit from the responsible village
official identified in Title XVII of this code of ordinances. The responsible
village official shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided
by the responsible village official. The application shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and, in
those parts of the site that are below the base flood elevation:
      (1)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (2)   The direction of flow of surface drainage and flood flows;
      (3)   The location of all watercourses and drainage facilities;
      (4)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (5)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.06 below.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
responsible village official shall compare the elevation of the site to the
base flood elevation. Any development located on land higher than the base
flood elevation is not in the SFHA and therefore not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The responsible village official shall inform the applicant of any and
all other local, state, and federal permits that may be required for this type
of development activity. The development permit will only be issued on the
condition that the other specified permits are obtained. The responsible
village official shall not issue a use permit or certificate of use or
occupancy unless all required permits have been obtained.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   (A)   (1)   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or
potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity.
      (2)   For development proposals located in an Area of State Concern, the
responsible village official shall review the development plans to discern if:
         (a)   A new obstruction to flood flows would be created;
         (b)   The project will involve a channel crossing such as a bridge or
pipeline; or
         (c)   The project will modify the shape of the channel.
      (3)   If any of the situations enumerated in division (A)(2) will result
from the project, the applicant shall be required to obtain a permit from the
State Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources, issued
pursuant to 615 ILCS 5/23. The responsible village official shall not issue a
development permit, unless the applicant has obtained either a permit under 615
ILCS 5/23 or a waiver of permit required from the Division of Water Resources.
   (B)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant material, flammable liquid, pollutants, or other
hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless the materials are stored in a
storage tank or floodproofed building constructed according to the requirements
of §
151.07(B)(3).
   (C)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted, provided that all manholes or other above ground
openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   (D)   The total cumulative effect of a proposed development will not
increase the base flood elevation more than one foot for the affected hydraulic
reach of the stream.
   (E)   No increase in the base flood elevation may be permitted unless:
      (1)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot for the affected hydraulic reach of
the stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages;
      (2)   A permit has been issued by the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Water Resources, pursuant to 615 ILCS 5/23;
      (3)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill, including
levees, the village shall submit sufficient data to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency to revise the regulatory flood maps and profiles.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
151.06, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Improvements made to an existing building that increase the first
floor area by more than 20%;
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at more than 50% of the value of the building before the damage
occurred; and
      (4)   Installing a mobile home on a new site or a new mobile home on an
existing site. This building protection requirement does not apply to returning
a mobile home to the same site it formerly lawfully occupied.
   (B)   This building protection requirement may be met by any one of the
following methods:
      (1)   A building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The area to be filled shall be cleared of all standing trees,
brush, down timber, trash, and other growth or objects unsuitable for use as
foundation material;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compaction;
         (c)   The surface of the fill shall be at or above the FPE. The fill
shall extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of the building before
sloping below the FPE;
         (d)   The fill shall be protected from erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, rip rap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties; and
         (f)   The responsible village official shall maintain a record of the
as built elevation of the lowest floor of the building.
      (2)   A building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters
and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures;
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored, shaped,
and aligned so as to minimize exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as
current, waves, and floating debris;
         (c)   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The bottom of the joists of the lowest floor shall
be located at or above the FPE. Beneath the lowest elevated floor of an
elevated residential building, all electrical, plumbing, ventilating, heating,
air conditioning equipment-related duct work, and utility meters shall be
located at or above the FPE;
         (d)   Elevated residential buildings must have permanent openings no
more than one foot above grade, and the walls and floor must not be subject to
damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood;
         (e)   The responsible village official shall maintain a record of the
as built elevation of the lowest floor;
         (f)   No area below the FPE shall be used for storage of items or
materials subject to flood damage unless the items or materials are declared to
be property not covered by a standard flood insurance policy of the National
Flood Insurance Program;
         (g)   Any future alteration of the area below the FPE that violates
the requirements of this subdivision shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter. The responsible village official shall inform the applicant that any
such alteration is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore will cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
         (h)   Mobile homes are prohibited in special flood hazard areas.
      (3)   A nonresidential building may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPE, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effect of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice;
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity; and
         (c)   The responsible village official shall maintain the engineer’s
certificate and a record of the as built elevation to which the building was
floodproofed.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall take into account all flood
hazards, to the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to
land management, use, and development.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall not approve any annexation agreement or
plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such agreement
or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The responsible
village official shall obtain the best available SFHA maps and data for the
unincorporated areas.
   (C)   New subdivisions and planned unit developments, or PUDs, shall meet
the requirements of §§
151.06 and
151.07. Plats or plans for new subdivisions and PUDs shall include a signed
statement by a registered professional engineer that the plat or plans account
for changes in the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the Plat Act,
765 ILCS 205/2.
   (D)   Plats or plans for new subdivisions and PUDs shall display the
following flood data:
      (1)   The boundary of the SFHA;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, if shown on available SFHA maps;
      (3)   Easements of lands dedicated to the village for access for channel
maintenance purposes; and
      (4)   The FPE for each building site. Where the base flood elevation is
not available from an existing study filed with the State Water Survey, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the FPE and submitting it to the
State Water Survey for review and approval as best available elevation data.
   (E)   Plans for the development activities to be undertaken by the village
in the SFHA shall be reviewed by the responsible village official to ensure
that they comply with this chapter. Except as exempted by law, no other local
government shall commence any development activity in the SFHA without first
obtaining a development permit from the responsible village official.
   (F)   When preparing or revising the comprehensive plan, community
development program, housing assistance plan, and other land use or development
programs the village shall take the following into consideration:
      (1)   Preserving SFHA land for open space uses such as farming or
recreation;
      (2)   Acquiring and removing frequently flooded buildings;
      (3)   Prohibiting hospitals, water treatment plants, natural gas storage,
and other critical or especially hazardous facilities from locating in the
SFHA;
      (4)   Identifying the elevations of the base flood and past floods at
entrances to public buildings, on street signs, or other prominent locations;
and
      (5)   Other flood hazard mitigation or floodplain management activities
that could help accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Zoning
Board of Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      (2)   A substantial economic hardship would result if the variance were
not granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities; and
      (6)   The provisions of §
151.05(D) can still be met.
   (C)   The responsible village official shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of §
151.07 that would lesson the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that he or she will acknowledge in writing that he or she assumes the risk
and liability.
   (D)   A variance from the requirements of §
151.07 may be granted to permit a wet floodproofed building, that is, a
building to be intentionally flooded during a flood, provided that:
      (1)   No part of such a building below the FPE may be subject to flood
damage;
      (2)   The variance shall be conditioned on the contents being:
         (a)   Materials resistant to flood damage;
         (b)   Items declared property not covered by a standard flood
insurance policy of the National Flood Insurance Program; or
         (c)   Readily movable to a place of protection during a flood provided
there will be available personnel and adequate warning.
      (3)   Any future alteration of the area below the FPE that violates the
conditions of the variance shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The
responsible village official shall inform the applicant that any such
alteration is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore
will cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (E)   Variances requested n connection with restoration of a site or
building documented as worthy of preservation by the State Department of
Conservation may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of division (A) above.
§ 151.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the SFHA
will be free from flooding or damage.
   (B)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
§ 151.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other proper
legal documents (that is, ordinances, easements, covenants, and the like)
conflict or overlap, the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The responsible village official may, upon due investigation,
determine that a violation of this chapter exists.
   (B)   Upon making such determination the responsible village official shall:
      (1)   Notify the property owner by certified mail;
      (2)   Allow ten days for correction;
      (3)   Reinvestigate;
      (4)   If the aberration has been corrected, take no further action;
      (5)   If not corrected, turn the matter over to the Village Board; and
      (6)   The responsible village official and, upon resolution of the
Village Board, the Village Attorney may make injunctive, or other relief,
application to the Circuit Court to secure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than $25. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. Failure to comply
with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking other action to
prevent or remedy any violations as provided by appropriate statutes.
   (E)   All costs connected therewith shall accrue to, and be the
responsibility of, the person or persons responsible for the violation.
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Rules of construction
   
152.03   Mobile home parks already in existence
Permit and License Requirements
   
152.20   Application for permit to construct new park; fee
   
152.21   Application for permit to alter licensed park; fee
   
152.22   Application to reduce number of licensed sites
   
152.23   Examination of permit application
   
152.24   Issuance of permit
   
152.25   License also required; term
   
152.26   Inspection of park; issuance of license
   
152.27   Zoning board of appeals; certification
   
152.28   License fees
   
152.29   Revocation or suspension of license
   
152.30   Obtaining new license after denial, suspension, or the like
   
152.31   Display and transfer of permit or license
   
152.32   Village to maintain certain records
Operation Regulations
   
152.50   Compliance required
   
152.51   Manager
   
152.52   Register
   
152.53   Minimum sites; access
   
152.54   Water and sewer regulations
   
152.55   Garbage storage and disposal
   
152.56   Other health and safety regulations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Public Health, unless otherwise
indicated.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have toilet and bath or
shower facilities.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home served by individual utilities,
resting on a permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established
frost depth with the wheels, tongue and hitch removed, and the home secured in
compliance with 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has self-contained toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
   INDIVIDUAL UTILITIES. As used in this chapter, means the provision for each
mobile home of a separate metered connection to electrical service; separately
tapped water service from an approved public water supply or a separate private
water supply; and a separately tapped connection to an approved public sewer
system or a separate private sewage disposal system.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation, and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. MOBILE HOME shall include manufactured homes constructed after June
30, 1976, in accordance with the federal National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five or more independent
mobile homes for permanent habitation, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts
of land from common licensure as a mobile home park if they are maintained and
operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a motorized
recreational vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a mobile home park.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   REVENUE PURPOSES. As used in this chapter shall include, but not be limited
to, moneys or other valuable consideration paid by a tenant or lessee or paid
by a contract purchaser pursuant to a contract for deed, sale, or purchase
prior to the delivery of the deed conveying legal title.
   SITE. The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent habitation.
§ 152.02 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Certain provisions of this chapter are based upon the Mobile Home Park
Act, 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq. This chapter shall be construed, where possible,
consistently with that Act. Should that Act be amended after the effective date
of this code of ordinances, and should the amended portion of that Act be
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be deemed amended to the
extent necessary to conform this chapter to that Act.
   (B)   If any requirement in this chapter is more stringent than any other
ordinance of the village on a similar subject, this chapter shall control. If
any requirement in this chapter is less stringent than any other ordinance of
the village on a similar subject, the other ordinance shall control.
§ 152.03 MOBILE HOME PARKS ALREADY IN EXISTENCE.
   All mobile home parks in operation as of the effective date of this code of
ordinances and licensed by the Department, shall be entitled to a license from
the village upon submission of an application containing the information set
forth in §
152.20 and the payment of an initial license fee of $50. Thereafter, the mobile
home park shall be subject to license renewals in accordance with §
152.28.
PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.20 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT NEW PARK; FEE.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct a new mobile home park, the
applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a written application, including
the following:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, names and
addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and
addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation;
      (2)   The address, location, and legal description of the tract of land
upon which it is proposed to construct, operate, and maintain a mobile home
park;
      (3)   The name of the mobile home park;
      (4)   Detailed plans and specifications sealed by a registered engineer
or architect licensed to practice in the State of Illinois which include a
general plot plan of the mobile home park with all sites and structures shown,
the water supply system, the sewage disposal system, the electrical system, the
fuel supply system, the lighting system, the method of disposal of solid waste,
all streets and sidewalks, swimming and bathing facilities, fire hydrants, and
details of all auxiliary structures;
      (5)   The number of mobile home sites proposed to be constructed or
licensed;
      (6)   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home park; and
      (7)   An application review fee of $100, which is nonrefundable.
   (B)   In fulfillment of the foregoing requirements set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (7) above, the applicant may submit a copy of the applicant’s
application to the State Department of Public Health.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO ALTER LICENSED PARK; FEE.
   An application for a permit to alter a licensed mobile home park shall be
submitted to the Village Clerk for any changes to the water, sewage, fuel, or
electrical systems other than normal maintenance, the relocation of sites, or
the expansion of the number of sites in the park. Detailed plans and
specifications shall be provided to show compliance with this chapter, State
Department of Health rules, and this code of ordinances. A review fee of $50
shall accompany the application. This fee shall not be refundable. Construction
shall not commence until a permit is issued. An applicant may fulfill the
obligations of this section by submitting a copy of the applicant’s similar
permit application to the Department.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 APPLICATION TO REDUCE NUMBER OF LICENSED SITES.
   An application to reduce the number of licensed sites shall be submitted to
the Village Clerk no later than ten days prior to the proposed date of
reduction. The specific sites no longer required to be licensed, and either the
method of disconnecting the required utilities or a description of the method
of immobilizing the mobile homes, shall be provided. If the reduction results
in less than five mobile homes remaining, the license shall be void if the
application is approved. No fee shall be required. The licensee shall be
responsible for insuring that all utilities at vacated spaces are disconnected
or sealed.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23 EXAMINATION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park
shall be submitted, with the application fee, to the Village Clerk. The Clerk
shall forward the application to the Utility Superintendent who, assisted as
necessary by the Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, and Electrical
Inspector, shall examine the plans for conformance with village ordinances
including but not limited to those relating to water, sewage, lighting, garbage
disposal, streets, sidewalks, swimming and bathing facilities, fire hydrants,
and auxiliary structures. The Superintendent shall render a written report of
findings to the Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall then examine the
application for conformance with zoning regulations. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall render a written report and submit the report along with the
Superintendent’s report, to the Board of Trustees, which shall rule on the
application, giving reasons for any denial.
   (B)   The applicant shall have 30 days to correct any deficiencies in the
plans and resubmit the application, which shall be reexamined and ruled on as
set forth herein with no additional application fee. After the first
resubmission, the Village Board in its sole discretion may require an
additional application fee for further resubmissions.
§ 152.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct a new mobile home
park, an application for an original license to operate and maintain the same,
or an application for a permit to alter a licensed mobile home park, the
village shall, if the park is or the proposed park will be in conformance with
this code of ordinances, this chapter, and all village ordinances, issue a
permit to construct, a permit to alter, or an original license, as the case may
be.
§ 152.25 LICENSE ALSO REQUIRED; TERM.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct, or
operate a mobile home park after April 30, 1972, without first obtaining a
license therefor from the village. CONDUCT or OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK as
used in this chapter shall include, but not necessarily be limited to supplying
or maintaining common water, sewer, or other utility supplies or services, or
the collection of rents directly or indirectly from five or more independent
mobile homes. The license shall expire April 30 of each year and a new license
shall be issued upon proper application and payment of the annual license fee,
provided the applicant is in substantial compliance with this code of
ordinances, this chapter, and with all village ordinances.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 INSPECTION OF PARK; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If a permit to construct or a permit to alter a park has been issued, the
applicant upon completion thereof shall notify the Village Building Inspector.
The Village Building Inspector shall then inspect the park and, if completed in
accordance with the approved plans, shall issue a license for the number of
approved sites after receipt of the required license fee.
§ 152.27 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS; CERTIFICATION.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals, upon denial or approval of an application,
shall perform the certification to the State Department of Public Health
required by 210 ILCS 115/5.
§ 152.28 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the application fees provided for herein, the licensee
shall pay to the village on or before March 31 of each year, an annual license
fee of $50. Annual license fees submitted after April 30 shall be subject to a
$50 late fee. The licensee shall also complete and return a license renewal
application by March 31 of each year.
   (B)   Each license fee shall be paid to the village and any license fee or
any part thereof, once paid to and accepted by the village, shall not be
refunded.
§ 152.29 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or
suspension by the village. However, the village shall first serve or cause to
be served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be specified the
way or ways in which the licensee has failed to comply with this chapter or any
rules or regulations promulgated by the State Department of Public Health. The
notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate the nuisance or unsanitary
or objectionable condition, specified in the notice, within five days or within
a longer period of time as may be allowed by the village. If the licensee fails
to comply with the terms and conditions of the notice within the time specified
or the extended period of time, the village may revoke or suspend the license.
   (B)   Revocation of a state license by the state shall constitute grounds
for revocation of the village license without any such period of time to abate
the condition.
§ 152.30 OBTAINING NEW LICENSE AFTER DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR THE LIKE.
   A mobile home park whose license has been voided, suspended, denied, or
revoked may be relicensed by submission of the application items required in §
152.20(A)(1) through (4) and an application fee of $50 which is nonrefundable.
Approval shall be issued if an inspection of the park by the village indicates
compliance with this chapter, this code of ordinances, and all village
ordinances.
§ 152.31 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER OF PERMIT OR LICENSE.
   No person shall construct a mobile home park without first obtaining a
permit to do so. All permits to construct, all licenses to operate, and all
permits to make alterations therein shall be prominently displayed in the park
office. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be transferable only with
the written consent of the village; however, the village may not withhold such
consent where the provisions of this chapter have been met. The new licensee
shall provide to the village the information required in §
152.20(A), (C), and (E).
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 VILLAGE TO MAINTAIN CERTAIN RECORDS.
   (A)   When the village has approved an application for a permit to construct
or make alterations upon a mobile home park or the appurtenances thereto or a
license to operate and maintain the same, it shall retain the original and keep
a file thereof.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall keep records of all mobile home parks. These
records shall show the names and addresses of all parks, names and addresses of
the licensees, number of mobile home lots in each park, source of water supply,
and system of sewage and garbage disposal.
OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 152.50 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Each mobile home park licensed or to be constructed under the provisions of
this chapter shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
§ 152.51 MANAGER.
   Every park shall be managed by a responsible individual whose name, address,
and telephone number shall be on file at all times with the village and whose
duty it shall be to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition, and who shall be responsible, with the
licensee, for any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.52 REGISTER.
   A register shall be maintained by the manager of each mobile home park. The
register shall include the name and address of the owner of each mobile home,
every occupant of the mobile home, the square feet of floor space contained in
the mobile home, and the date of entry of the mobile home into the park. The
register shall be signed by the owner or occupant of the mobile home. No person
shall furnish misinformation for purposes of registration. The registration
records shall be neatly and securely maintained, and no registration records
shall be destroyed until six years have elapsed following the date of
registration. The register shall be available for inspection upon request by
all law enforcement officers, the State Department of Public Health, and by
duly authorized employees and officers of the village.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.53 MINIMUM SITES; ACCESS.
   (A)   Each site on which a mobile home is accommodated shall have a minimum
area of 2,500 square feet, provided that sites existing in parks prior to
August 21, 1967 shall contain an area of not less than 1,000 square feet, and
sites constructed between August 21, 1967 and September 8, 1967 shall contain
an area of not less than 2,100 feet.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be parked closer than five feet to the side lot
lines of a park, or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley, or
building. Each individual site shall abut or face on a private or public
street. All streets shall have unobstructed access to a public street. There
shall be an open space of at least ten feet adjacent to the sides of every
mobile home and at least five feet adjacent to the ends of every mobile home.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.54 WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No park shall be so located that the drainage of the park area will
endanger any water supply. All the parks shall be well drained. No waste water
shall be deposited on the surface of the ground within the mobile home park.
   (B)   An adequate supply of water from the village shall be furnished at
each park. Each site shall be provided with a cold water tap located in
accordance as per regulations of the State Department of Public Health.
   (C)   All sewage and other water-carried wastes shall be disposed of into
the village sewerage system whenever the interceptor or sewer main of the
system is adjacent to the park.
   (D)   Each site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined
liquid waste outlet or outlets of each mobile home. It shall be the duty of the
owner or operator of the park to provide an approved type of water- and odor-
tight connection from the mobile home water drainage to the sewer connection.
It shall be the duty of the owner or operator to make the connection and keep
all occupied mobile homes connected to the sewer while located in the park.
Sewer connections in unoccupied sites shall be closed so that they will emit no
odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be allowed
to fall on the ground from a mobile home.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.55 GARBAGE STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and watertight containers in
accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the State Department of
Public Health shall be supplied for the storage of garbage except where an
adequate incinerator is provided.
   (B)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall not
be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling or a breeding
place for flies.
   (C)   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner consistent with
this code of ordinances.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 OTHER HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control. Adequate insect and rodent control measures
shall be employed. All buildings shall be fly- and rodent-proof, and rodent
harborage shall not be permitted to exist in the park or pathways.
   (B)   Fire extinguishers. Mobile homes in mobile home parks shall each be
equipped with fire extinguishers in working order, one in each end of the
mobile home. Inspection of any such equipment shall be performed by the
village.
   (C)   Porches, skirting, and auxiliary buildings or rooms. Porches,
carports, garages, sheds, awnings, skirting, and auxiliary rooms shall be
constructed of materials specified by regulations of the State Department of
Public Health.
   (D)   Streets; dust control. All streets in every park must be maintained in
a passable and reasonably dust-proof condition at all times.
   (E)   Sanitary, electrical, and safety appliances. The management of every
park shall assume full responsibility for maintaining in good repair and
condition all sanitary, electrical, and safety appliances in the park, and
shall promptly bring such action as is necessary to prosecute or eject from the
park any person or persons who willfully or maliciously damage the appliances,
or any person or persons who fail to comply with the regulations of this
chapter.
   (F)   Electrical outlets. Electrical outlets for each individual site shall
be provided. Installation shall be in accordance with this code of ordinances
and applicable building codes promulgated hereunder.
   (G)   Dependent mobile homes and similar vehicles. In no event shall a
dependent mobile home, non- permanent shelter, or other vehicle designed or
used for sleeping purposes, other than an independent mobile home, be permitted
for occupancy at any time in a mobile home park.
   (H)   Community kitchens and the like. When community kitchens, dining
rooms, laundries, or other facilities are provided, the facilities and
equipment as are supplied must be maintained in a sanitary condition and kept
in good repair, subject to such rules and regulations as may be issued by the
State Department of Public Health.
   (I)   Construction, installation. All buildings constructed or altered, all
plumbing, and all electrical and heating installations shall be in accordance
with this code of ordinances and all other village ordinances.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, shall upon conviction be
fined not more than $750. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate
offense. The village may, in addition to other remedies provided by state law,
bring action for an injunction to restrain the violation or to enjoin the
operation of any such mobile home park.
TITLE XVII: LOCAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
170.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
171.   ADMINISTRATION
      
172.   PUBLIC WORKS
      
173.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
174.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
175.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
176.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
177.   LAND USAGE
CHAPTER 170: GENERAL PROVISIONS
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 171: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
171.01   Meeting dates and times
§ 171.01 MEETING DATES AND TIMES.
   The meetings of the governing body will be held once a month, every third
Tuesday, at 7:00 p.m.
CHAPTER 172: PUBLIC WORKS
Section
   
172.01   Trash collection rate
   
172.02   Water rates
   
172.03   Wastewater rates
§ 172.01 TRASH COLLECTION RATE.
   Trash pick-up for the village will increase by $0.50 per customer beginning
on the billing cycle of 9-1-2022, to keep in line with rising trash removal
costs.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 172.02 WATER RATES.
   There shall be established the following rates and charges for the use of
the water system of the village, based upon the amount of water consumed as
follows. (Note to tables: * = plus $2 monthly facility charge.)
   (A)   Water rates inside village.
 
1 - 500 gallons per month       $26.61 monthly charge*
501 - 1,000 gallons per month   $30.77 monthly charge*
1,001 - 2,000 gallons per month $35.69 monthly charge*
Over 2,000 gallons per month    $39.24 for first 2,000 gallons, $10.47 per
                                1,000 gallons over the initial 2,000*
 
   (B)   Water rates outside village.
 
1 - 500 gallons per month       $26.61 monthly charge*
501 - 1,000 gallons per month   $30.77 monthly charge*
1,001 - 2,000 gallons per month $35.69 monthly charge*
Over 2,000 gallons per month    $39.24 for first 2,000 gallons, $10.47 per
                                1,000 gallons over the initial 2,000*
 
   (C)   Bulk sales.
 
First 2,000 gallons per month $39.24 minimum charge*
Over 2,000 gallons per month  $10.47 per 1,000 gallons*
 
(Ord. 2023-05, passed - -2022)
§ 172.03 WASTEWATER RATES.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a
basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the village.
   (B)   A minimum charge of $27 per month shall be applied to all users whose
water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month. This charge will be
increased to $29.20 per month upon adoption of this section.
   (C)   A basic user rate of $4.50 per 1,000 gallons shall be applied to all
users for water consumption in excess of 2,000 gallons per month for each
additional 1,000 gallons or portion thereof. This charge will be increased to
$5.60 per month upon adoption of this section.
   (D)   All non-metered residential users of the wastewater facilities shall
pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate to cover the costs of the
minimum debt service charge, the minimum service charge and the basic user rate
of $20 per 4,000 gallons. This charge will be increased to $22.40 per month
upon adoption of this section.
   (E)   The flat rate charge will allow a maximum of 4,000 gallons per month.
   (F)   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
village to be in excess of 4,000 gallons per month, the village may require
such flat rate user to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer
main to measure the amount of service supplied.
   (G)   All users will pay the monthly facility charge for sewer utility of
$2, as per Ord. 2017-03A, adopted 11-16-2016.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-16-2022)
CHAPTER 173: TRAFFIC CODE
Section
   
173.01   Parking restrictions
§ 173.01 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   There shall be no parking in front of the fire station.
CHAPTER 174: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Property Regulations
   
174.01   Garbage and debris
   
174.02   Weeds
   
174.03   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
174.04   Derelict vehicles
Animals
   
174.15   Short title
   
174.16   Definitions
   
174.17   Cats
   
174.18   Dogs
   
174.19   Vicious and dangerous dogs
   
174.20   Restriction on possession by felons
   
174.21   Livestock in village
   
174.22   Exotic animals
   
174.23   Cruelty to animals
   
174.24   Attorney fees and costs
   
174.25   Nuisances; injunction
   
174.26   Injury to property
   
174.27   Waste products accumulations
   
174.28   Manner of keeping
   
174.29   Duties of Chief of Police and manager of animal control facility
relative to subchapter
 
   
174.99   Penalty
PROPERTY REGULATIONS
§ 174.01 GARBAGE AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Accumulation prohibited. No person shall permit any garbage or trash
to accumulate on their premises or private property. It is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of real estate
to refuse or neglect to remove the garbage or debris.
   (B)   Notice to person. The Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative may issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris.
Such garbage or debris shall be removed by the owner or occupant within five
days after such notice has been duly served.
   (C)   Service of notice. Service of notice provided for herein may be
effected by handing of the same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the
premises, or to any member of his or her household of the age of 15 years or
older found on the premises or by mailing such notice to the last known
residence address of the owner; provided that if the premises are unoccupied
and the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then the notice may be served by
posting the same upon the premises.
   (D)   Abatement. If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
five days, the Police Chief or the designated representative may proceed to
abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement and
such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or occupant.
   (E)   Lien. Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A
bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof
incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)    A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
   (F)   Payment. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village
or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed
of record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
   (G)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the
village, after lien is in effect for 60 days. Suit to foreclose this lien shall
be commenced within two years after the date of filing notice of lien.
Penalty, see §
174.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
§ 174.02 WEEDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WEEDS. Include, but not be limited to, the following: Burdock, Rag Weed
(giant), Rag Weed (Common), Thistle, Cocklebur, Jimson, Blue Vervain, Common
Milk Weed, Wild Carrot, Poison Ivy, Wild Mustard, Rough Pigweed, Lambsquarter,
Wild Lettuce, Curled Dock, Smartweeds (all varieties), Poison Hemlock, Wild
Hemp and Johnson Grass, and all other noxious weeds as defined by the state
statutes.
   (B)   Height. It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or
plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to
a height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any such plants or
weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Notice. The Police Department or any other person so designated by the
Mayor may issue a written notice for removal of weeds or grass. Such weeds or
grass shall be cut by the owner or occupant within five days after such notice
has been duly served.
   (D)   Service of notice. Service of the notice provided for herein may be
effected by handing the same to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises,
or to any member of his or her household of the age of 15 years or older found
on the premises or by mailing such notice to the last known residence address
of the owner; provided, that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s
address cannot be obtained, then the notice may be served by posting the same
upon the premises.
   (E)   Abatement. If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
five days, the Police Chief may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an
account of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and
paid by such owner or occupant.
   (F)   Lien. Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof
incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
   (G)   Payment. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises if his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village
or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed
of record in the same manner as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release
filing fees shall be paid by the owner of the property.
   (H)   Foreclosure of lien. Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed
cutting charges shall be sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of
such sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the
name of the village after the lien is in effect for 60 days.
Penalty, see §
174.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-20-7
§ 174.03 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
   (B)   Declaration of nuisance. All inoperable motor vehicles, whether on
public or private property in view of the general public, are hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to owner. The Police Chief shall notify the owner of the motor
vehicle, informing him or her that he or she shall dispose of any inoperable
vehicles under his or her control. If the owner fails to dispose of said
inoperable vehicle(s) after seven days from the issuance of the notice, the
Police Chief may authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of
the inoperable vehicle or parts thereof.
   (D)   Exclusions. Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle
that is kept within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles
over 25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a licensed
business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3
§ 174.04 DERELICT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTIQUE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is more than 25 years of age or a
bona fide replica thereof and which is driven on the highways only going to and
returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for servicing or
demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than 20 years old which is not
used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the purpose of exhibition
of demonstration.
      DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered, discarded motor
vehicle, regardless of title, having lost its character as a substantial
property and left unattended without justification on the owner’s land contrary
to the public policy expressed in this section.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of
at least 30 days or any greater period fixed by ordinance, the engine, wheels
or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE
shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable
of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service
or repair operations. This definition of INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE is taken from
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs.
      UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is not currently
licensed or registered with the state or that is exempt from registration in
the state under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/3-402. By licensed or registered,
reference is made to the license plate, tags or stickers for a license plate.
      VEHICLE. Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or
exempt from registration, except bicycles, snowmobiles and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (B)   Derelict motor vehicles.
      (1)   Prohibition against inoperable motor vehicle. It shall be unlawful
for a person within the village limits to have an inoperable motor vehicle on
property in his or her control or occupied by that person for a period in
excess of 30 days after issuance and service of a written warning notice of
violation of this section.
         (a)   Disposal of inoperable motor vehicle. The village shall have the
right as provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3 to dispose of any inoperable motor
vehicle or part thereof after 30 days from the issuance and service of a
written warning notice of violation as provided herein if there continues to
exist a violation of division (B)(1) above.
         (b)   Exempt vehicles. Nothing in this section shall apply to any
motor vehicle that is kept wholly within a building when not in use, to
operable historic vehicles over 25 years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the
premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor
vehicles. It shall not be a defense that any such inoperable vehicle is covered
with a cloth, plastic, vinyl, canvas or any other type of vehicle covering,
whatsoever.
         (c)   Notice.
            1.   For the purposes of this section, notice shall consist of the
issuance and delivery of a written warning notice of violation of this section
by a village police officer on any of the following: the owner of the property
where the motor vehicle is located; any person over the age of 13 years of age
residing at the property where the motor vehicle is located; or the owner of
the motor vehicle, if known.
            2.   Said notice shall state that any such person is to dispose of
any inoperable motor vehicles under his or her control, and that after 30 days
from the issuance of the written warning notice, the Police Department of the
village may remove any inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof.
         (d)   Costs. The costs of towing, storage and processing for the
removal and/or disposal of any inoperable motor vehicle may be satisfied from
any of the following sources:
            1.   The vehicle;
            2.   The person owning the vehicle; or
            3.   The person having control of or possession of the property
where the vehicle is removed from.
         (e)   Towing. The Mayor and Chief of Police of the village are also
authorized to enter into a contract with a tow truck operator or junk yard
operator to provide removal, storage and disposal services of inoperable motor
vehicles removed and disposed of in accordance with this section at no cost to
the village in exchange for the vehicle.
      (2)   Prohibition against unregistered motor vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for a person to have an unregistered motor vehicle in view of the
general public within the village limits on property in his or her control or
occupied by that person for a period in excess of 30 days after issuance and
service of a written warning notice of violation of this section.
         (a)   Exempt vehicles.
            1.   Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle that
is kept wholly within a building when not in use, to a motor vehicle on the
premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor
vehicles, or to a motor vehicle that is exempt from registration under 625 ILCS
5/3-402 or any section subsequently enacted with the same purpose.
            2.   Having a motor vehicle currently registered with the state or
which is exempt from registration under 625 ILCS 5/3-402 shall be a defense to
this section of this section. It shall not be a defense that any such
inoperable vehicle is covered with a cloth, plastic, vinyl, canvas or any other
type of vehicle covering, whatsoever.
         (b)   Notice.
            1.   For the purposes of this section, notice shall consist of the
issuance and service of a written warning notice of violation of this section
by a village police officer on any of the following: the owner of the property
where the motor vehicle is located; any person over the age of 13 years of age
residing at the property where the motor vehicle is located; or the owner of
the motor vehicle, if known. Such written notice shall constitute service.
            2.   Said notice shall state that any such person is to register
the motor vehicles with the state, and that after 30 days from the issuance of
the written warning notice, the person receiving the notice shall be subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (C)   Exclusions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles
owned by persons who are on active duty in service of the Armed Forces of the
United States.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-7-2009) Penalty, see §
174.99
ANIMALS
§ 174.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Animal Control Code.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 174.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than human, which may be affected by rabies.
(510 ILCS 5/2.02)
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Village Board to perform duties enforcing this subchapter, any ANIMAL
CONTROL OFFICIAL appointed and acting under authority of the County Board or
any law enforcement officer appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Village
Board to perform duties enforcing this subchapter.
(510 ILCS 5/2.03)
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property
of its owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day including holidays that the animal control facility is
open to the public for animal reclaims.
(510 ILCS 5/2.03a)
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. An animal that is commonly considered to be, or is
considered by the owner to be a pet. COMPANION ANIMAL includes, but is not
limited to, canines, felines and equines.
(510 ILCS 70/2.01a)
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
(510 ILCS 5/2.05)
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious physical injury. (510 ILCS 5/2.05a)
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the State of
Illinois.
(510 ILCS 5/2.06)
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11)
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an ENCLOSURE suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the ENCLOSURE. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom, and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a
residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless
it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be locked. A vicious dog
may be allowed to move about freely within the entire residence if it is
muzzled at all times.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11a)
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, raccoon, squirrel,
skunk, fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, member of the feline species
other than domestic cat (Felis domesticus), member of the canine species other
than domestic dog (Canis familiaris) or any other animal that would require a
standard of care and control greater than that required for domestic farm
animals or customary household pets sold by commercial pet shops.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that is:
      (1)   Born in the wild or is offspring of an owned or feral cat and is
not socialized;
      (2)   A formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized; or
      (3)   A cat not socialized living on a farm.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11b)
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
(510 ILCS 5/2.12)
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZED. The painless administration of a lethal dose of an
agent or method of euthanasia that causes the painless death of an animal.
(510 ILCS 70/2.09)
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into custody of the animal control facility in the village,
town or county where the animal is found.
(510 ILCS 5/2.12a)
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
(510 ILCS 5/2.13)
   INTACT ANIMAL. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
(510 ILCS 5/2.11c)
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain, which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
(510 ILCS 5/2.14)
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
(510 ILCS 5/2.15)
   LIVESTOCK. Any domestic animal, including, but not limited to, animals
typically found on a farm such as horses, asses, donkeys, mules, horses,
cattle, sheep, goats, swine, fowl (i.e., turkeys, geese, chickens and ducks)
and bison. For the purposes of this subchapter, LIVESTOCK shall not include
domestic pets such as dogs and cat, and exotic animals, as defined herein.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has an animal in his or her care, or acts as its
custodian, or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on any premises
occupied by him or her. OWNER does not include a feral cat caretaker
participating in a trap, spay/neuter, return or release program.
(510 ILCS 5/2.16)
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association
or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the state, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state, or any other business unit.
(See 510 ILCS 5/2.17)
   PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of physical condition.
(510 ILCS 5/2.18a)
   POLICE ANIMAL. An animal owned or used by a law enforcement department or
agency in the course of the Department’s or agency’s work.
(510 ILCS 5/2.17b)
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that is unsupervised and found running at
large with three or more other dogs.
(510 ILCS 5/2.17c)
   POUND or ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. Any facility approved by the Village Board
or the County Board for the purpose of enforcing this subchapter and used as a
shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs or other
animals.
(510 ILCS 5/2.18)
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this subchapter.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19)
   RESTRAINT. A dog, off the premises of its owner’s real property, is under
restraint within the meaning of this subchapter when:
      (1)   It is controlled by a line or leash not more than six feet in
length;
      (2)   It is at heel beside a competent person;
      (3)   It is within an enclosed vehicle being driven, parked or stopped;
      (4)   It is being utilized in the sport of hunting; or
      (5)   It is controlled by a leash of 50 feet or less during a training
session conducted by a competent person.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ or requires plastic
surgery.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19a)
   SERVICE ANIMAL. An animal trained in obedience and task skills to meet the
needs of a disabled person.
(510 ILCS 70/2.01c)
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of June
through September.
   SHELTER. A moisture-proof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog
and allow retention of body heat, made of durable material with a solid floor
raised at least two inches from the ground and with the entrance covered by a
flexible, windproof material. Such structure shall be provided with a
sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide insulation and protection
against cold and dampness.
   TAG. A serially numbered medallion approved and issued by the county that is
evidence of inoculation against rabies.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death, or any individual dog that has been found to
be a dangerous dog upon three separate occasions.
(510 ILCS 5/2.19b)
   WILD ANIMAL. Any primate, raccoon, skunk, fox, poisonous snake or other
poisonous reptile, non-poisonous snake or other non-poisonous reptile that
exceeds five feet in length, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other
animal or any bird of prey which can normally be found in the wild state and is
not generally considered to be a domestic animal.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 174.17 CATS.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of more than five cats in the village for a
considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created and is therefore declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Number of cats limited. Except for cats housed within a veterinary
hospital or animal shelter, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons
within the village to keep or maintain or permit the keeping of, on any
premises, owned, occupied or controlled by such person or persons, more than
five cats, with the exception that a litter of kittens or portion of a litter
may be kept for a period of time not exceeding five months from birth.
   (C)   Keeping crying cats. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to
keep or harbor any cat which habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort
of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially
disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities.
Such cats are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Petitions complaining of crying cats.
      (1)   Whenever any person shall complain to the Police Department that a
cat which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the village,
the Police Department shall notify the owner of said cat that a complaint has
been received, and that the person should take whatever steps necessary to
alleviate the crying or howling.
      (2)   If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping a cat as
set forth in division (D)(1) above is ineffective, then a verified complaint of
at least one citizen may be presented to the Police Department, alleging that a
cat that habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person within the
village. The Police Department shall inform the owner of such cat that said
petition has been received and may cite the owner of the cat for the violation
alleged in said petition.
   (E)   Diseased cats. No cat afflicted with a contagious or infectious
disease shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of a person or beast may be affected; nor shall such
diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof,
except under the supervision of the Chief of Police or designated officer. It
is hereby made the duty of the animal control officer to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as
to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except
in cases where the state veterinarian is empowered to act. Upon determining
that a cat is sick or diseased, the animal control officer shall transport said
cat to the local veterinary clinic for examination. The veterinary clinic will
then treat each case appropriately.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.18 DOGS.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of more than five dogs in the village for a
considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created and is therefore declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Number of dogs limited. Except for dogs housed within a veterinary
hospital or animal shelter, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
keep or maintain or permit the keeping of, on any premises, owned, occupied or
controlled by such person or persons, more than five dogs within the village,
with the exception that a litter of pups or portion of a litter may be kept for
a period of time not exceeding six months from birth.
   (C)   Keeping howling and barking dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person
knowingly to keep or harbor any dog which habitually barks excessively or howls
to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in such
manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who are of
ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Inoculation and tags.
      (1)   Each calendar year or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
      (2)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the
dog to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
   (E)   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate. The inoculation of dogs required by division (D) above shall be
performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or her profession in
this state. Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to
the owner or keeper a certificate evidencing such inoculation and shall also
deliver to the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached
to the collar or harness of the dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact
of the inoculation against rabies.
   (F)   Duration of inoculation. The inoculation performed under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such
period of time as may be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
   (G)   Specifications for tag. The tag issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
   (H)   Exhibition of certificate upon request. At any reasonable time upon
request of any member of the Police Department or village employee, the owner
or keeper of any dog shall exhibit his or her certificate, showing the
inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled by him or her.
   (I)   Restraint of dogs. The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog
under restraint at all times and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off
the premises of the property of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under
complete control (see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-9 and 510 ILCS 5/9).
   (J)   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department, and others as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to
take up and impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that
purpose, any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the village, contrary
to any of the provisions of this subchapter or other regulations of the
village.
      (2)   Once a dog has been seized, it may be released only after payment
of fees as set forth in division (M)(1) below.
      (3)   When dogs are found running at large or untagged and their
ownership is known to the animal control officer or police officer, the owner
of such dog shall be cited to answer charges for violation of this subchapter,
notwithstanding any failure of the animal control officer to impound the dog.
      (4)   At the time of impoundment, the animal control officer shall
prepare an impoundment form to be approved by the Board of Trustees of the
village indicating the appropriate impoundment fee, with space provided for the
total amount of board and other fees.
   (K)   Transfer of impounded dog to licensed pound or shelter.
Notwithstanding the provisions of division (J) above, at the discretion of the
impounding officer, any impounded dog may be held at, transferred to or
directly placed with a licensed pound, animal shelter or the Humane Society.
   (L)   Notice of impoundment and citation to owner or keeper. When a dog is
apprehended and impounded, it must be scanned for the presence of a microchip.
The owner of every dog impounded under this subchapter, if known, shall be
promptly notified by the Police Department of the time and date of the
impoundment, which notice shall be given by telephone or by first class mail.
In addition to the notice required herein, such owner shall be cited to answer
charges for violation of this subchapter.
   (M)   Redemption; payment of all fees.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any dog impounded under the
provisions of this subchapter to immediately redeem such dog, unless the dog
has been impounded:
         (a)   For biting some person within the village;
         (b)   For being afflicted with rabies;
         (c)   For being suspected of being afflicted with rabies; or
         (d)   For being a dangerous or vicious dog pursuant to §
174.19.
      (2)   An impounded dog may be redeemed by paying to the Police Department
or Village Clerk all impoundment fee(s), boarding charges, necessary medical
charges and any such other lawful fees accrued pursuant to this subchapter. In
addition, the owner must present proof of current rabies inoculation and
registration, if applicable, or pay for the rabies inoculation and
registration, if applicable, and any cost to scan for microchip done in order
to redeem the dog.
      (3)   Upon payment of the required fees, the Police Department or the
Village Clerk shall issue a certificate or receipt stating that all fees have
been paid. Such a certificate or receipt will entitle the owner to redeem the
impounded dog from the appropriate facility. No dog shall be released without
such certificate or receipt.
      (4)   Redemption shall be made within seven business days of impoundment.
If the dog is not redeemed within seven business days from the date of
impoundment, the impounded dog may be humanely euthanized, offered for adoption
or otherwise disposed of as a stray dog by a licensed pound, animal shelter or
Humane Society in accordance with the laws that exist or may hereafter exist.
   (N)   Redemption and boarding fees. The following redemption fees shall be
charged for every dog impounded by the village:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for the taking and impounding of a dog in the
village facility;
      (2)   Fifty dollars for the taking and impounding of a dog in a licensed
pound, animal shelter or Humane Society; and
      (3)   Fifteen dollars boarding fee per day for each day or part thereof,
which the dog was impounded, regardless of the impounding facility.
   (O)   Medical costs. In addition to the redemption fees to be paid for every
impounded dog, the owner or redeemer shall pay the animal shelter for all
medical charges which have accrued as a result of necessary medical treatment
of said dog, for the entire period that it was impounded. Such medical costs
may include, but not be limited to, inoculation for rabies required by the
Department of Agriculture.
   (P)   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons.
      (1)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so
as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and
kept separate from other dogs for ten days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed, in such a manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
      (2)   In case such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be
shot, care being taken to preserve the head intact, which shall thereupon be
immediately detached and be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the
Department of Agriculture.
      (3)   If, at the expiration of the period of ten days, no symptoms of
rabies have developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the
owner upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified herein this
code. After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or otherwise
injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
   (Q)   Village may provide pound. The village may designate a suitable place
for the impounding of dogs. The village may also contract with a suitable
animal shelter or the Humane Society for the care and boarding of any animals
impounded subject to this subchapter.
   (R)   Obstructing animal control officer; breaking into animal control
facility. It is a violation of this subchapter to resist, hinder or molest the
animal control officer or police officer while he or she is engaged in the
duties imposed upon him or her by this subchapter, or to break into the animal
control facility and release or deliver any animal therefrom without having
first paid the fees herein specified. Any person who is convicted of these
offenses shall be fined according to the penalties provided herein (see 65 ILCS
5/11-1-1 and 5/11-20-9)
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.19 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Dangerous dog determination.
      (1)   Declaration. The animal control officer may declare a dog to be
dangerous after a thorough investigation including sending, within ten business
days of the animal control officer becoming aware of the alleged infraction,
notice to the owner of the alleged infractions and the initiation of an
investigation, and affording the owner an opportunity to meet with the animal
control officer prior to the making of a determination; gathering any medical
or veterinary evidence; interviewing witnesses; and making a detailed written
report. No dog shall be deemed a dangerous dog unless shown to be a dangerous
dog by a preponderance of evidence. The owner shall be sent immediate notice of
the determination and a description of the appeal process by registered or
certified mail (see 510 ILCS 5/15.1).
      (2)   Order. Upon the animal control officer’s determination that a dog
is dangerous, the animal control officer shall order the dog to be spayed or
neutered and microchipped, if not already, within 14 days, at the owner’s
expense.
      (3)   Impoundment. The animal control officer has the right to impound a
dangerous dog if the owner fails to comply with the requirements of this
subchapter (see 510 ILCS 5/15.1).
      (4)   Exemptions.
         (a)   No dog shall be deemed dangerous if:
            1.   The threatened person was at the time committing a crime or
offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or willfully trespassing upon
the premises or property occupied by its owner;
            2.   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring;
            3.   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was
attacking or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring;
            4.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian or a member of its household, kennel or offspring;
            5.   The dog is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement or
guard duties, or a guide dog for the blind or hearing impaired or a support dog
for the physically handicapped and the threat or injury occurred while the dog
was performing its duties as expected; or
            6.   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog
must be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with this subchapter
and performing duties as expected.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner of a dog exempted under
division (A)(4)(a)5. above to notify the animal control officer of changes of
address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the animal
control officer advised of the location where the dog will be stationed. The
animal control officer shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of exempted dogs and promptly notify the departments of any
address changes reported to him or her.
   (B)   Dangerous dog control. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or
recklessly permit any dangerous dog to leave the premises of its owner when not
under control by leash or other recognized control methods. The animal control
officer may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled whenever it is on public
premises in a manner that will prevent it from biting any person or animal, but
that shall not injure the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration (see
510 ILCS 5/15.1 and 510 ILCS 5/15.2).
   (C)   Dangerous dog appeal.
      (1)   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to this
subchapter by the animal control officer may file a complaint against the
village in the Circuit Court within 35 days of receipt of notification of the
determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination. The proceeding shall
be conducted as a civil hearing pursuant to the Illinois Rules of Evidence and
the Code of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., including the discovery
provisions. After hearing both parties’ evidence, the Court may make a
determination of dangerous dog if the animal control officer meets his or her
burden of proof of a preponderance of the evidence. The final order of the
Circuit Court may be appealed pursuant to the civil appeals provisions of the
Illinois Supreme Court rules.
      (2)   Until the order has been reviewed and at all times during the
appeal process, the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the
animal control officer.
      (3)   At any time after a final order has been entered, the owner may
petition the Circuit Court to reverse the designation of dangerous dog.
   (D)   Vicious dog determination.
      (1)   Vicious dog determination. In order to have a dog deemed vicious,
the animal control officer or law enforcement officer must give notice of the
infraction that is the basis of the investigation to the owner, conduct a
thorough investigation, interview any witnesses, including the owner, gather
any existing medical records, veterinary medical records or behavioral
evidence, and make a detailed report recommending a finding that the dog is a
vicious dog and give the report to the States Attorney’s office and the owner.
The animal control officer, State’s Attorney or any citizen of the county in
which the dog exists may file a complaint in the Circuit Court in the name of
the people of the state to deem a dog to be a vicious dog. Testimony of a
certified applied behaviorist, a board certified veterinary behaviorist or
another recognized expert may be relevant to the Court’s determination of
whether the dog’s behavior was justified. The petitioner must prove the dog is
a vicious dog by clear and convincing evidence. The animal control officer
shall determine where the animal shall be confined during the pendency of the
case.
      (2)   Order. Upon the animal control officer’s determination that a dog
is vicious, the animal control officer shall order the dog to be spayed or
neutered and microchipped, if not already, within ten days at the owner’s
expense.
      (3)   Exemptions.
         (a)   No dog shall be deemed vicious if:
            1.   The threatened person was at the time committing a crime or
offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or willfully trespassing upon
the premises or property occupied by its owner;
            2.   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring, or has in the past abused, assaulted or
physically threatened the dog or its offspring;
            3.   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was
attacking or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring;
            4.   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian or a member of its household, kennel or offspring;
            5.   The dog is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement or
guard duties, or a guide dog for the blind or hearing impaired or a support dog
for the physically handicapped and the threat or injury occurred while the dog
was performing its duties as expected; or
            6.   To qualify for exemption under this section, each such dog
must be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with this subchapter
and performing duties as expected (see 510 ILCS 5/15).
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner of a dog exempted under
division (D)(3)(a)5. above to notify the animal control officer of changes of
address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the animal
control officer advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The
animal control officer shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a
categorized list of exempted dogs and promptly notify the Departments of any
address changes reported to him or her.
      (4)   Determination not based on breed. A dog shall not be classified
vicious based solely on its breed.
      (5)   Consequences of vicious dog determination. If the burden of proof
has been met, the Court shall deem the dog to be a vicious dog. It shall be
unlawful to keep any dog, which has been declared vicious pursuant to this
subchapter or the Illinois Animal Control Act within the village. The judge has
the discretion to order a vicious dog be euthanized. No owner or keeper of a
vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog without approval from the Court
(see 510 ILCS 5/15).
      (6)   Impoundment; humane euthanization.
         (a)   Any dog that has been found to be a vicious dog and that is
found within the village shall be impounded by the animal control officer or
law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such area. If the owner of the
dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the Circuit Court in the county
in which the animal was impounded within 15 business days, the dog may be
humanely euthanized (see 510 ILCS 5/15).
         (b)   Upon filing a notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be
automatically stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The owner shall bear
the burden of timely notification to animal control in writing.
      (7)   Petition; security.
         (a)   If the animal control agency has custody of the dog, the agency
may file a petition with the Court requesting that the owner be ordered to post
security. The security must be in an amount sufficient to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses expected to be incurred by the animal control agency or
animal shelter in caring for and providing for the dog pending the
determination. Reasonable expenses include, but are not limited to, estimated
medical care and boarding of the animal for 30 days. If security has been
posted in accordance with this section, the animal control agency may draw from
the security the actual costs incurred by the agency in caring for the dog (see
510 ILCS 5/15).
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition, the Court must set a hearing on the
petition, to be conducted within five business days after the petition is
filed. The petitioner must serve a true copy of the petition upon the
defendant.
         (c)   If the Court orders the posting of security, the security must
be posted with the clerk of the Court within five business days after the
hearing. If the person ordered to post security does not do so, the dog is
forfeited by operation of law and the animal control agency must dispose of the
animal through adoption or humane euthanization (see 510 ILCS 5/15).
   (E)   Animal attacks or injuries. If a dog or other animal, without
provocation, attacks, attempts to attack or injures any person who is peaceably
conducting himself or herself in any place where he or she may lawfully be, the
owner of such dog or other animal is liable in civil damages to such person for
the full amount of the injury proximately caused thereby (see 510 ILCS 5/16).
   (F)   Right of entry inspections. For the purpose of making inspections
hereunder, the animal control officer, or his or her authorized representative,
or any law enforcement officer may enter upon private premises; provided that
the entry shall not be made into any building that is a person’s residence, to
apprehend a straying dog or other animal, a dangerous or vicious dog or other
animal, or an animal thought to be infected with rabies. If, after request
therefor, the owner of the dog or other animal shall refuse to deliver the dog
or other animal to the officer, the owner shall be in violation of this
subchapter (see 510 ILCS 5/17).
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.20 RESTRICTION ON POSSESSION BY FELONS.
   (A)   (1)   For a period of ten years, commencing upon the release of a
person from incarceration, it shall be prohibited for a person convicted of:
         (a)   A forcible felony;
         (b)   A felony violation of the Humane Care for Animals Act;
         (c)   A felony violation of Article 24 of the Criminal Code of 1961;
         (d)   A felony violation of Class 3 or higher of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act;
         (e)   A felony violation of Class 3 or higher of the Cannabis Control
Act; or
         (f)   A felony violation of Class 2 or higher of the Methamphetamine
Control and Community Protection Act.
      (2)   Within the village, knowingly own, possess, have custody of or
reside in a residence with, either:
         (a)   An unspayed or unneutered dog or puppy older than 12 weeks of
age; or
         (b)   Irrespective of whether the dog has been spayed or neutered, any
dog that has been determined to be a vicious dog under § 15 of the Animal
Control Act or of §
174.19.
   (B)   Any dog owned, possessed by or in the custody of a person convicted of
a felony, as described in division (A) above must be microchipped for permanent
identification.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-36
§ 174.21 LIVESTOCK IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   Livestock within the village.
      (1)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, no person shall keep within the village any livestock, as defined
herein.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The prohibition against livestock within the village limits
shall not apply to the following animals, for personal use only: ducks, geese,
turkeys, quail, other fowl, rabbits, goats and sheep. No person shall have more
than a reasonable amount for personal use of each species of animal at any one
time, including domestic pets. Any such animals for personal use shall be kept
in an enclosure that is located no closer than five feet to the property line.
         (b)   This division (A) shall not apply in areas of the village that
are zoned agricultural in nature nor shall this section apply to livestock
brought in to the village for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
   (B)   Pot bellied pigs. A resident of the village may keep one pot bellied
pig that is registered through the Pot Bellied Pig Association as a household
pet; provided the pot bellied pig is inoculated in accordance with current
veterinary standards and all requirements for proper restraint, as defined in
this subchapter, are met. Other than a registered pot-bellied pig, there shall
be no swine within the village limits.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.22 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Exotic animals within the village. Except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter, no person shall keep within the village any exotic animal.
   (B)   Exceptions. If a person shall apply to the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources (IDNR) for a permit to keep a wild animal, such as deer,
raccoon, skunk, fox, squirrel and said permit be granted, then that person may
apply to the Village Board for a variance permit to allow the keeping of such
animal. No such permit will be granted without the village first being shown an
approved IDNR permit and a certification of a licensed veterinarian that such
animal is healthy and current on all required vaccinations, including rabies,
when required.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.23 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. No person or owner may beat, cruelly
treat, torment, starve, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal, except that
reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a public charge or may
suffer injury, hunger or exposure. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to
the county animal control facility for adoption or other proper disposition
(see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6 and 510 ILCS 70/3.01).
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather (see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-6).
   (C)   Confinement in motor vehicle. No owner or person shall confine any
animal in a motor vehicle in such a manner that places it in a life or health-
threatening situation by exposure to a prolonged period of extreme heat or
cold, without proper ventilation or other protection from such heat or cold. In
order to protect the health and safety of an animal, an animal control officer,
law enforcement officer or Department investigator who has probable cause to
believe that this section is being violated shall have authority to enter such
motor vehicle by any reasonable means under the circumstances after making a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person responsible (see 65 ILCS
5/11-5-6 and 510 ILCS 70/7.1).
   (D)   Animal fighting prohibited. No person shall fight or bait, conspire to
fight or bait, or keep, train, or transport for the purpose of fighting or
baiting, any animal (see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-3).
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.24 ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS.
   In additional to any other fees, fines or reimbursements, if any person is
cited with a violation of the animal code or convicted of any provision
thereof, the village shall be entitled to the recovery of its attorney’s fees
and court costs for associated with such citation or conviction.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 174.25 NUISANCES; INJUNCTION.
   Any violation of this subchapter is declared to be a nuisance. In addition
to any other relief provided by the village municipal code, the Village
Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to
prohibit the continuation of any violation of this subchapter. Such application
for relief shall entitle the village to the recovery of its attorney's fees and
court costs for prosecuting such injunction.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 174.26 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing an animal subject
to this code to permit the animal to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or private
lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises and
break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub,
tree or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.27 WASTE PRODUCTS ACCUMULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit animals subject to
this code to be on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such
person unless such person has in his or her immediate possession an appropriate
device for scooping waste products and an appropriate depository for the
transmission of waste products to a receptacle located upon property owned or
possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a person who is
visually or physically handicapped.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.28 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein any animal is kept shall
be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and kept in good repair,
adequate for the purpose, and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.29 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE AND MANAGER OF ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY
RELATIVE TO SUBCHAPTER.
   Except as to the regulations concerning inoculation against rabies, the
Chief of Police is charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 174.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person convicted of a violation of §
174.04 shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $150;
         (b)   Second offense: $300;
         (c)   Third offense: $500; and
         (d)   Fourth or greater offense: $750 per offense.
      (2)   Each day that §
174.04 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The fine for violation of any provision of §§
174.15 through
174.29 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First citation: $75;
      (2)   Second citation: $100;
      (3)   Third citation: $300;
      (4)   Fourth citation: $475; and
      (5)   Fifth and proceeding citations: $750.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 1-7-2009; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 175: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 176: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 177: LAND USAGE
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
 
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                          Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                        10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                        10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                           10.04
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                  32.03
5 ILCS 120/2.02                       32.03;
                                      32.22
5 ILCS 120/2.03                       32.03;
                                      32.22
5 ILCS 140                            31.51;
                                      34.15
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.                  34.04
5 ILCS 140/1                          34.03
5 ILCS 140/2                          34.01
5 ILCS 140/3                          34.07;
                                      34.11
5 ILCS 140/3(c)                       34.05
5 ILCS 140/3(d)                       34.07
5 ILCS 140/3(e)                       34.08
5 ILCS 140/3(f)                       34.08
5 ILCS 140/3(g)                       34.09
5 ILCS 140/3(i)                       34.07
5 ILCS 140/3.1                        34.07;
                                      34.15
5 ILCS 140/3.2                        34.01;
                                      34.07
5 ILCS 140/3.3                        34.02
5 ILCS 140/3.5                        34.16
5 ILCS 140/3.6                        34.07
5 ILCS 140/4                          34.14
5 ILCS 140/6                          31.51;
                                      34.06
                                      34.08;
5 ILCS 140/7                          34.10;
                                      34.11
5 ILCS 140/7.5                        34.10
5 ILCS 140/9                          34.11
5 ILCS 140/9.5                        34.11
5 ILCS 140/11                         34.11
10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                 32.02
15 ILCS 520/11                        31.51
15 ILCS 520/11.1                      31.51
20 ILCS 515                           34.01
20 ILCS 527                           34.01
20 ILCS 1605                          135.02
20 ILCS 1605/7.12                     135.02
20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.             137.02
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.                92.01
30 ILCS 225/1                         31.51
30 ILCS 235/6                         31.51
30 ILCS 235/6.5                       31.51
35 ILCS 200/18-50                     33.02
40 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.               33.02
50 ILCS 105/2                         31.01
50 ILCS 105/3 et seq.                 33.07
50 ILCS 220/1 et seq.                 32.48
50 ILCS 220/2                         93.15
50 ILCS 710                           137.02 
55 ILCS 5/3-9005                      137.02
55 ILCS 5/5-1127                      70.01
55 ILCS 5/5-12002.1                   90.04
                                      10.02;
65 ILCS 5                             31.05;
                                      31.62
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                       10.02
                                      10.99;
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                       32.40;
                                      151.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                     10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-2                       32.41
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3                       32.47
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4                       32.45
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5                       32.46
65 ILCS 5/1-3-1                       32.48;
                                      93.15
65 ILCS 5/1-3-2                       32.48;
                                      93.15
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5                    32.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(a)                 31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(b)                 31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5(d)                 31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6                    31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25                   31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30                   31.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                   31.63
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40                   31.03;
                                      31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45                   31.36
                                      31.20;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50                   31.35;
                                      31.50;
                                      32.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-55                   31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-65                   31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                    31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                   31.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20                   31.21;
                                      31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25                   31.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-25                   31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5                    32.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-10                   32.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-75(b)                31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90                   31.35
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                    31.50;
                                      31.60
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5(d)                 31.06
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10                   31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5                    31.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10                   31.05
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20                   31.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30                   31.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35                   31.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35(b)                32.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-60                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65 through 3.1-35-80 31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-80                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85                   31.51
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90                   31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115                  31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-130                  31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-135                  31.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-5                    32.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-10                   32.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15                   32.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20                   32.23
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                   32.03;
                                      32.22
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-30                   32.03;
                                      32.21
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35                   32.24
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40                   32.42
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-45                   32.43
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50                   32.44
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55                   32.44
                                      31.21;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5                    32.01;
                                      32.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-10                   31.61
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5                    31.04;
                                      32.04
                                      31.04;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10                   31.22;
                                      31.37;
                                      32.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15                   32.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-5                    31.62
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10                   33.07
65 ILCS 5/4-1-1 et seq.               32.21;
                                      32.43
65 ILCS 5/4-8-6                       33.07
                                      32.21;
65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq.               32.43;
                                      33.02
65 ILCS 5/5-2-2                       31.01
65 ILCS 5/5-2-11                      31.01
65 ILCS 5/8-1-1 et seq.               32.45
65 ILCS 5/8-1-1                       33.01
65 ILCS 5/8-1-6                       33.04
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9                       33.02;
                                      33.03
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.               33.05
65 ILCS 5/8-8-3 et seq.               33.06
65 ILCS 5/8-8-3                       33.06
65 ILCS 5/8-8-3(a)                    33.06
65 ILCS 5/8-8-4                       33.06
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1 et seq.               33.07
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1                       33.07
65 ILCS 5/9-5-1                       150.44
65 ILCS 5/9-5-2                       150.44
65 ILCS 5/10-1-1 et seq.              31.36
65 ILCS 5/11-5-3                      174.23
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1                      174.18
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                      132.02
65 ILCS 5/11-5-6                      174.23
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                      93.02;
                                      93.16
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                    151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-20-5                     Ch. 94
65 ILCS 5/11-20-6                     174.02
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                     174.02
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9                     174.18
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13                    174.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                     151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                     151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                     98.04
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.01                  98.04
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                     98.04;
                                      151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-1                     71.001;
                                      75.10
                                      174.03;
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3                     174.04;
                                      90.02
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1                   90.01—
                                      90.03
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                     Ch. 112
65 ILCS 5/11-60-1                     110.02
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2                     96.02
65 ILCS 5/11-80-3                     97.015
65 ILCS 5/11-80-7                     97.030
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13                    97.051
65 ILCS 5/11-124-1 et seq.            33.07
70 ILCS 1205/3-9                      70.01
105 ILCS 5/1E-1 et seq.               34.01
105 ILCS 5/2-3.51.5                   71.002
205 ILCS 5/5g                         135.01;
                                      135.02
205 ILCS 205/7008                     135.01;
                                      135.02
205 ILCS 305/42.7                     135.01;
                                      135.02
205 ILCS 740                          132.01
210 ILCS 45                           132.01
210 ILCS 47                           132.01
210 ILCS 49                           132.01
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                152.02
210 ILCS 115/5                        152.27
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                152.01
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.                50.03
225 ILCS 320/3(1)                     52.22
225 ILCS 447                          137.02
225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.              137.02
225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.             74.07
230 ILCS 10                           135.02;
                                      135.03
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.              111.05
230 ILCS 15                           135.02
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                 111.05
230 ILCS 20                           135.02
230 ILCS 25                           135.02
230 ILCS 30                           135.02
230 ILCS 40                           135.01—
                                      135.03
235 ILCS 5                            111.05
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.02                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.04                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.18                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.21                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.22                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.23                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/1-3.25                     111.01
235 ILCS 5/4-1                        111.04
235 ILCS 5/4-2                        111.02
235 ILCS 5/4-4                        111.02
235 ILCS 5/4-5                        111.02
235 ILCS 5/4-7                        111.04
235 ILCS 5/6-1 et seq.                111.08
235 ILCS 5/6-1                        111.08;
                                      111.09
235 ILCS 5/6-2                        111.05
235 ILCS 5/6-2(a)(14)                 111.05
235 ILCS 5/6-2.5                      111.05
235 ILCS 5/6-3                        111.50
235 ILCS 5/6-21 et seq.               111.07
235 ILCS 5/6-21                       111.07
235 ILCS 5/6-21(a)                    111.05
235 ILCS 5/7-1                        111.04
235 ILCS 5/7-5                        111.51;
                                      111.99
235 ILCS 5/7-7                        111.51
235 ILCS 5/7-9                        111.04;
                                      111.51
235 ILCS 5/7-12                       111.52
235 ILCS 5/7-13                       111.53
325 ILCS 5/4                          132.01
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                  50.03
415 ILCS 5/3.215                      71.103
415 ILCS 5/3.220                      71.103
                                      71.103;
415 ILCS 5/3.360                      136.01;
                                      136.02
415 ILCS 105/3                        71.103
415 ILCS 105/3(a)                     136.01
415 ILCS 105/4                        136.02
415 ILCS 105/5                        136.03
415 ILCS 105/6                        136.04
415 ILCS 105/8                        136.99
415 ILCS 105/8(a)                     136.02;
                                      136.03
415 ILCS 105/9                        136.05
415 ILCS 105/10                       136.06;
                                      136.99
425 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                 93.02
425 ILCS 30/23                        93.04
425 ILCS 35/1                         93.01
425 ILCS 35/2                         93.02
425 ILCS 35/4                         93.03
430 ILCS 15/1                         93.16
430 ILCS 30/3                         71.081
430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 16-3         Ch. 137
510 ILCS 5                            137.03
510 ILCS 5/2.02                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.03                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.03a                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.05                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.05a                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.06                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.11                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.11a                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.11b                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.11c                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.12                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.12a                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.13                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.14                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.15                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.16                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.17                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.17b                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.17c                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.18                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.18a                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.19                       174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.19a                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/2.19b                      174.16
510 ILCS 5/9                          174.18
510 ILCS 5/15                         174.19
510 ILCS 5/15.1                       174.19
510 ILCS 5/15.2                       174.19
510 ILCS 5/16                         174.19
510 ILCS 5/17                         174.19
510 ILCS 70/2.01a                     174.16
510 ILCS 70/2.01c                     174.16
510 ILCS 70/2.09                      174.16
510 ILCS 70/3.01                      174.23
510 ILCS 70/7.1                       174.23
515 ILCS 5                            137.03
520 ILCS 5                            137.03
525 ILCS 30/3.11                      131.01
525 ILCS 30/3.14                      131.01
605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                70.35
605 ILCS 120/50                       136.99
615 ILCS 5/23                         151.06
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.              136.01
625 ILCS 5/1-102                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-104.2                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-105                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-106                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-107                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-108                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-112                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-113                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-116                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117.7                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120.7                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-125                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-126                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-130                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-131                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-132                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-133.1                    71.001
625 ILCS 5/1-135                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-136                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-137                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-138                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139.1                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.15                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-141                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145.001                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-146                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-147                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.2                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.6                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-153                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-154                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-155                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-156                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157.5                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-158                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.3                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.5                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-163                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166.1                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167.5                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-168                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.6                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.8                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-172                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-174                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-176                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-177                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-178                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-179                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-181                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-182                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187.1                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188                      10.02;
                                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-193                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-194                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-195                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-196                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-197                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-199                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-200                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-201                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-203                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205.1                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-208                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-209                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-210.01                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211.01                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-212                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214                      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214.8                    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-217                      70.01;
                                      131.01
625 ILCS 5/3-101(d)                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-402                      174.04
625 ILCS 5/3-414(1)                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-609                      72.12
625 ILCS 5/3-616                      72.12
625 ILCS 5/3-821.1                    90.04
625 ILCS 5/4-107(c)                   90.10
625 ILCS 5/4-201                      90.01
625 ILCS 5/4-202                      90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203                      76.05;
                                      90.99
625 ILCS 5/4-203(a)—(d)             90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203(d)                   90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203(e)                   90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203(f)                   90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203(f)(4)                90.99
625 ILCS 5/4-203(g)                   90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203(g)(1)                90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-203(h)                   90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-204                      90.03
625 ILCS 5/4-205                      90.04
625 ILCS 5/4-206                      90.04
625 ILCS 5/4-207                      90.05
625 ILCS 5/4-208                      90.06
625 ILCS 5/4-209                      90.06
625 ILCS 5/4-209.2                    90.06
625 ILCS 5/4-210                      90.07
625 ILCS 5/4-211                      90.08
625 ILCS 5/4-212                      90.06
625 ILCS 5/4-213                      90.09
625 ILCS 5/4-213(b)                   76.05 
625 ILCS 5/4-214                      90.11
625 ILCS 5/6-118                      34.06
625 ILCS 5/6-204                      76.05
625 ILCS 5/6-205                      76.990
                                      71.067;
625 ILCS 5/6-500                      71.081;
                                      71.083
625 ILCS 5/7-601                      76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-203                     70.10;
                                      70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-205                     70.11
625 ILCS 5/11-206                     70.12
                                      70.01;
625 ILCS 5/11-301                     72.12;
                                      72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-302                     70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-305                     70.30;
                                      70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-306                     70.31
625 ILCS 5/11-307                     70.32
625 ILCS 5/11-308                     70.33
625 ILCS 5/11-309                     70.34
625 ILCS 5/11-310                     70.35
625 ILCS 5/11-311                     70.36;
                                      70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-312                     70.37;
                                      70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-313                     70.38
625 ILCS 5/11-401(a)—(b-1)          76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-401(e)                  76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-402                     76.05;
                                      90.09
625 ILCS 5/11-402(a)                  76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-403                     76.04;
                                      76.99
                                      76.06;
625 ILCS 5/11-404                     76.99;
                                      90.09
625 ILCS 5/11-409                     76.08;
                                      76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-415                     76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1                   76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-503                     76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)                  76.01
                                      76.02;
625 ILCS 5/11-506                     76.99;
                                      90.03
625 ILCS 5/11-506(a)                  90.03
625 ILCS 5/11-601                     71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-601(a)—(c)            71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-604                     71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-605                     71.001;
                                      74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605(a)                  71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(c)                  71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-605(e)                  71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(e-5)              71.002;
                                      71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(d)                71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(d-5)              71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(g)                71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)                  71.004
625 ILCS 5/11-611                     71.003
625 ILCS 5/11-701                     71.040
625 ILCS 5/11-702                     71.041
625 ILCS 5/11-703                     71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-703(a)—(e)            71.042
625 ILCS 5/11-703(f)                  71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-704                     71.043
625 ILCS 5/11-705                     71.044
625 ILCS 5/11-706                     71.042;
                                      71.044
625 ILCS 5/11-707                     71.042;
                                      71.047
625 ILCS 5/11-708                     71.046
625 ILCS 5/11-709                     71.048
625 ILCS 5/11-710                     71.096
625 ILCS 5/11-711                     71.106
625 ILCS 5/11-801                     71.020
625 ILCS 5/11-802                     71.021
625 ILCS 5/11-803                     71.022
625 ILCS 5/11-804                     71.023
625 ILCS 5/11-805                     71.024
625 ILCS 5/11-806                     71.025
625 ILCS 5/11-901                     71.060
625 ILCS 5/11-901 et seq.             73.01
625 ILCS 5/11-902                     71.061
625 ILCS 5/11-903                     71.062
625 ILCS 5/11-904                     71.063
625 ILCS 5/11-905                     71.064
625 ILCS 5/11-906                     71.065
625 ILCS 5/11-907                     71.040;
                                      71.066
625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1)               71.066
625 ILCS 5/11-907(b)                  71.066
625 ILCS 5/11-907.5                   71.040
625 ILCS 5/11-908                     71.040
625 ILCS 5/11-1001 et seq.            74.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1001                    74.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1002                    74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5                  74.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1003                    74.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1                  74.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1004                    74.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1                  74.13
625 ILCS 5/11-1005                    74.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1                  74.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1006(a)—(d)           74.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1006(e)                 74.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1007                    74.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1008                    74.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1009                    74.10
625 ILCS 5/11-1010                    74.11
625 ILCS 5/11-1011                    74.12;
                                      74.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a)—(d-1)         71.080
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(e)                 71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(f)                 71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1202                    71.081
625 ILCS 5/11-1204                    70.41
625 ILCS 5/11-1205                    71.082
625 ILCS 5/11-1301                    72.11
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1                  72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                  72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a)—(a-2)       72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b)               72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c)               72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c-1)             72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d)               72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(e)               72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3                  72.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(f)               72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                    72.40
625 ILCS 5/11-1303                    72.10;
                                      72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1304                    72.01;
                                      72.11
625 ILCS 5/11-1305                    72.41
625 ILCS 5/11-1401                    72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1402                    71.095
625 ILCS 5/11-1403                    73.20
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1                  73.25
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2                  73.23
625 ILCS 5/11-1404                    73.21
625 ILCS 5/11-1405                    73.22
625 ILCS 5/11-1406                    71.097
625 ILCS 5/11-1407                    71.098
625 ILCS 5/11-1410                    71.099
625 ILCS 5/11-1411                    71.100
625 ILCS 5/11-1412                    71.100
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1                  71.101
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2                  71.101
625 ILCS 5/11-1413                    71.103
625 ILCS 5/11-1414                    71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a)—(e)           71.045
625 ILCS 5/11-1416                    71.104
625 ILCS 5/11-1418                    71.105
625 ILCS 5/11-1420                    71.067
625 ILCS 5/11-1425(a)—(b-5)         71.083;
                                      71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1502                    73.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1503                    73.02
625 ILCS 5/11-1504                    73.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1505                    73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1505.1                  73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1506                    73.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1507                    73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1                  73.24
625 ILCS 5/12                         75.01
625 ILCS 5/12-101                     75.01
625 ILCS 5/12-208                     71.023;
                                      71.024
625 ILCS 5/12-215                     70.11
625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12)              72.11
625 ILCS 5/12-601                     74.10
625 ILCS 5/12-801                     70.01;
                                      71.081
625 ILCS 5/12-802(a)                  70.01
                                      70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-803                     71.045;
                                      71.081
                                      70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-805                     71.045;
                                      71.081
625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.             75.10
625 ILCS 5/15-101                     75.01;
                                      75.10
625 ILCS 5/15-105                     75.11
625 ILCS 5/15-106                     75.12
625 ILCS 5/15-109                     75.13
625 ILCS 5/15-114                     75.14
625 ILCS 5/16-101 et seq.             70.99
625 ILCS 5/18a-100 et seq.            90.03
625 ILCS 5/18a-200                    90.03
625 ILCS 40                           70.01
705 ILCS 405                          132.99
720 ILCS 5/2-2                        130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-3                        130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-4                        130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-12                       130.01
720 ILCS 5/4-4                        130.02
720 ILCS 5/4-5                        130.03
720 ILCS 5/4-6                        130.04
720 ILCS 5/4-7                        130.05
720 ILCS 5/8-4                        130.06
720 ILCS 5/11-20(a)—(c)             134.02
720 ILCS 5/11-20(d)                   134.99
720 ILCS 5/11-20(e)—(g)             134.02;
                                      134.99
720 ILCS 5/11-21                      134.03
720 ILCS 5/11-30(a)                   134.01
720 ILCS 5/11-30(b)                   134.01
720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)                   134.99
720 ILCS 5/12-36                      174.20
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a)—(d)            132.02
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(e)                  132.99
720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.              135.01
720 ILCS 5/21-1                       131.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1(a)—(c)              131.02
720 ILCS 5/21-1(d)(4)                 130.99
720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(a)—(c)            131.03
720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(d)                  131.99
720 ILCS 5/21-3(a)—(g)              131.01
720 ILCS 5/21-3(h)                    131.99
720 ILCS 5/21-3(i)                    131.01
720 ILCS 5/21-3(j)                    131.01
720 ILCS 5/24(b)                      137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5)               137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)                 137.01;
                                      137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(8)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(9)                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(14)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(16)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(c)                    137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(d)                    137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(e)                    137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1.9                     137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-2(a)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(b)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(d)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(f)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6)                  137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(h)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(i)                    137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                     137.03
720 ILCS 5/24-6                       137.04
720 ILCS 5/26-1                       132.01
720 ILCS 5/26-1(a)                    132.01
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)                    135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(12) 111.05
720 ILCS 5/28-1(b)                    135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(c)                    135.99
720 ILCS 5/28-1(d)                    135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1.1                     111.05
720 ILCS 5/28-2                       135.01
720 ILCS 5/28-3                       111.05;
                                      135.03
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                    135.04
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                    135.04
720 ILCS 5/31-1                       133.01;
                                      133.99
720 ILCS 5/31-8                       133.02
720 ILCS 5/32-9(a)                    133.03
720 ILCS 5/32-9(b)                    133.99
725 ILCS 5/112A-3(b)(7)               131.01
725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)(2)              131.01
725 ILCS 5/124B-5 et seq.             134.02
725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.                137.02
730 ILCS 5                            137.02
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.              174.19
735 ILCS 5/2-202                      131.01
735 ILCS 5/15-1200.5                  131.01
735 ILCS 5/15-1505.8(1)               131.01
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.             150.23;
                                      150.40
                                      150.23;
765 ILCS 205/2                        150.24;
                                      151.08
765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.                150.03
765 ILCS 605/5                        150.26
815 ILCS 5/3                          135.02
815 ILCS 5/8                          135.02
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2009-1   1-7-2009    174.04;
                     174.99
                     174.15—
2012-02  - -2012     174.29;
                     174.99
2023-03  - -2022     172.02
2023-04  7-19-2022   172.01
2023-05  8-16-2022   172.03
                    
 
