CITY OF LACON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-13-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
#5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Lacon shall be designated as the
Code of Lacon, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Lacon, irrespective
of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Lacon.
   COUNTY. Marshall County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Marshall County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Lacon.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE FORCE. Construed to include such persons in the employ of a city as
members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be appointed
and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS. (5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Lacon.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail, and “certified mail” includes
REGISTERED MAIL.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, 5 ILCS 180/1 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An ILCS cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An ILCS cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
city for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined not
less than $250 or more than $750 for any code violation occurrence where
another fine is not specifically provided, and each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Settlement.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this code or city ordinance, any
person accused of violation of any provision of this code or any city ordinance
punishable by a fine may settle the violation by paying the penalty assessed in
the violation notice and report for such violation within 21 days of receipt of
the violation notice and report. Payments to the city shall be made to either
the City of Lacon City Clerk or City Treasurer, 406 5th Street, Lacon, IL
61540.
      (2)   Upon the failure to timely pay the settlement amount, the person
accused of violation of the code or any city ordinance shall be required to
appear in the Circuit Court of Marshall County in Lacon, Illinois, at the time,
date, and place set forth on a notice to appear or a subsequently issued notice
to appear, as applicable.
      (3)   The settlement option does not preclude the city from taking any
other action authorized by this code or any city ordinance, or by federal or
state law, against a person accused of violation of this code or city
ordinance. Additionally, the city’s Prosecuting Attorney may refuse/refund
settlement payments if the Prosecuting Attorney believes that such settlement
would not be in the best interest of the city or its citizens.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-12-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNCIL; MEETINGS
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Division by wards and their boundaries
   
30.02   Corporate seal
   
30.03   Fiscal year
   
30.04   Injury to public property
   
30.05   Elections
   
30.06   Surety bonds
§ 30.01 DIVISION BY WARDS AND THEIR BOUNDARIES.
   The city is divided into three wards and designated as follows.
   (A)   North Ward. All that part of the city west of High Street and north of
Fifth Street, and all that part of said city north of the former Illinois Gulf
Central Railway track shall constitute the North Ward.
   (B)   East Ward. All that part of said city east of High and School Streets
and south of the former Illinois Gulf Central Railway track shall constitute
the East Ward.
   (C)   South Ward. All that part of the said city south of Fifth Street, and
west of High and School Streets in said city shall constitute the South Ward.
(Prior Code, § 1-1) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 10-11-1999)
§ 30.02 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   A seal in a circular form, with the words “City of Lacon” on the outer
circle, and in the interior and center of said circle the words “Chartered Feb.
28, 1854” and also in the center of said seal, the picture of an eagle with
wings spread, shall be the seal of the city, to be used in all cases that have
been, or shall hereafter be provided by the laws of the United States, the laws
of the state, and the ordinances of the city, and in all cases in which, by the
laws and customs of nations, it is necessary to use a seal by a corporation.
   (B)   The city seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Clerk of said
city, and be used by the Clerk and the Mayor of said city, as is provided in
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)
§ 30.03 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the city shall begin on May 1 of each calendar year and
end on April 30 of each calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. passed 4-2-1962)
§ 30.04 INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure, deface or interfere with any
property belonging to the city without proper authority from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.05 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute, and at
the time prescribed statute.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4)
§ 30.06 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the city is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of a license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in this state as a surety company, in the absence of specific
provision to the contrary by ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever in its opinion additional sureties or an additional surety
may be needed on any bond to indemnify the city against loss or liability
because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for any other
reason, the city may order a new surety or sureties to be secured for such
bond. If such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten days from the
time such order is transmitted to the principal on the bond, or his or her
assignee, the Council shall declare the bond to be void, and thereupon such
principal or assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege or
position as condition of which the bond was required.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5)
CHAPTER 31: COUNCIL; MEETINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Elections; functions
   
31.02   Oath; salary
   
31.03   Meetings
   
31.04   Mayor
Rules of Order
   
31.15   Order of business
   
31.16   Rescinded action
   
31.17   Resolutions
   
31.18   Rules and procedures for public comment at open meetings
   
31.19   Suspension of rules
   
31.20   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
31.21   Quorum
   
31.22   Committees
   
31.23   Disturbing meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS; FUNCTIONS.
   The City Council shall consist of six Aldermen, two each to be elected from
each ward, to office for a four-year term, according to the method provided by
statute. The Council shall be the legislative department of the city
government, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
delegated to it by statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 31.02 OATH; SALARY.
   The members of the City Council shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute, and shall receive such compensation as may be provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 31.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold its regular meetings in the City Hall on
the first Wednesday after the second Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m.
   (B)   The meeting place of the Council shall be at the City Hall, unless
otherwise ordered by the Council.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any three Aldermen upon
at least 48 hours’ notice to all Aldermen and the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 2019-3, passed 2-11-2019; Ord. 2021-6, passed 5-12-
2021)
§ 31.04 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of all regular and special meetings
of the City Council and at all times when the Council meets as committee of the
whole.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
RULES OF ORDER
§ 31.15 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business of the City Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Pledge of allegiance;
   (B)   Call meeting to order;
   (C)   Roll call;
   (D)   Public comment;
   (E)   Approval of minutes;
   (F)   Pay monthly bills;
   (G)   Old business;
   (H)   New business;
   (I)   Committee reports;
   (J)   Aldermen/Mayor reports;
   (K)   Executive session; and
   (L)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 31.16 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the City Council shall be rescinded at any special
meeting of the City Council unless there be present at such special meetings as
many members of the City Council as were present at the meeting when such vote
or action was taken as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 31.17 RESOLUTIONS.
   Any resolutions submitted to the City Council shall be reduced to writing
before being voted upon on request of any two Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 31.18 RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AT OPEN MEETINGS.
   The rules and procedures for public comment at all open meetings of the City
Council and all city committees/boards shall be as follows.
   (A)   A public comment period shall be held during every open meeting of the
City Council and all city committees/boards. Except upon motion approved by a
majority of the City Council or city committee/board, the public comment period
shall not exceed: 30 minutes for open meetings of the City Council and Zoning
Board; and 15 minutes for open meetings of all other city committees/boards.
The right to public comment does not apply to closed meetings/executive
sessions.
   (B)   On the agenda for every open meeting of the City Council and all city
committees/boards, the public comment portion of the meeting shall be placed on
the agenda at the beginning of the meeting right after “roll call”.
   (C)   Anyone desiring to address the City Council or a city committee/board
must complete the public comment registration form available in the City
Clerk’s office and return it to the City Clerk or his or her designee, at least
five minutes prior to the start of the meeting at which the person desires to
speak.
   (D)   On the public comment registration form, the person must include his
or her name, the date of the meeting and the item on which the person wishes to
speak. A person may only submit a public comment registration form on his or
her own behalf, or for a group on whose behalf the person has been designated
by a group to speak, in which case, the name of the group must be provided on
the public comment registration form.
   (E)   Public comment shall be permitted by the presiding officer only during
the designated public comment period specified on the agenda. The presiding
officer shall recognize registered speakers in the order in which they
submitted their completed public comment registration form to the City Clerk or
his or her designee, except in situations where numerous persons wish to speak
on a single agenda item. A person who has not timely submitted a completed
public comment registration form to the City Clerk or his or her designee shall
not be permitted to speak at the meeting, except upon motion approved by a
majority of the City Council or city committee/board.
   (F)   Public comment is limited to a total of five minutes per registered
speaker at any open meeting of the City Council and is limited to a total of
three minutes per registered speaker at any open meeting of a city committee/
board. A registered speaker cannot give his or her allotted minutes to another
person.
   (G)   Once a registered speaker has been recognized by the presiding
officer, the speaker shall only address the City Council or city committee/
board from the location where he or she is seated/standing, and shall not
approach members of the City Council or city committee/board. Registered
speakers shall begin their public comments by first stating, for the record,
their name, and if speaking as a representative of a group, the name of the
group.
   (H)   Public comments must be directed by registered speakers to the City
Council or city committee/board as a whole, and not to an individual member of
the City Council or city committee/board, or to city staff. The public comment
period is not intended to require members of the City Council or city
committee/board, or city staff, to provide responses to registered speakers.
Discussions between registered speakers and members of the audience shall not
be permitted.
   (I)   After a registered speaker has made his or her public comments, or his
or her allotted time for public comment has expired, he or she shall be seated
with no further debate, dialogue or comment.
   (J)   All comments must be civil and respectful in nature. Any registered
speaker who makes defamatory, obscene, discriminatory, threatening or abusive
comments, or who engages in threatening, abusive or disorderly behavior when
addressing the City Council or a city committee/board may be deemed out-of-
order by the presiding officer, and the speaker’s opportunity for public
comment at that meeting may be terminated.
   (K)   If numerous persons wish to speak on a single item, the presiding
officer may recognize a specific number of registered speakers to make comments
regarding the matter. Any registered person who is not able to address the City
Council or city committee/board for this reason or due to the expiration of the
time allotted for the public comment period, will be encouraged to attend a
subsequent meeting to address the City Council or city committee/board, and/or
to provide written comments.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 2014-8, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.19 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by the consent of a majority of the Aldermen present at any
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 31.20 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the City Council,
except when in conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 31.21 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Aldermen shall constitute a quorum to do business, but no
ordinance shall be passed except upon the favorable vote of a majority of the
elected Aldermen, as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
§ 31.22 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following shall be the standing committees of the City Council:
      (1)   Finance and Purchasing;
      (2)   Water and Sewer;
      (3)   Building, Grounds and Streets; and
      (4)   Police.
   (B)   Special and additional committees shall be created from time to time
as directed by the City Council and or the Mayor. All standing and special
committees shall consist up to four members each, including the Chairperson or
Chairpersons unless the Council shall direct otherwise. All committees shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) (Ord. 2014-9, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.23 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any meeting of the City
Council or of any committee thereof. Any person violating the provisions of
this section shall be removed from the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Effect
   
32.02   Appointments
   
32.03   Term of office; vacancies
   
32.04   Moneys received
   
32.05   Oath
   
32.06   Salaries
   
32.07   Assignment of duties
   
32.08   Records
   
32.09   Bond
   
32.10   Termination of office
   
32.11   Impersonation
   
32.12   Interference with officers
   
32.13   Mayor
   
32.14   City Clerk
   
32.15   City Treasurer
   
32.16   Superintendent of Public Works
   
32.17   Superintendent of Water Works
   
32.18   Reimbursement for travel, meal, and lodging expenses
§ 32.01 EFFECT.
   The provisions of §§
32.01 through
32.12 shall apply alike to all officers and employees of the city, regardless
of the time of the creation of the office or position or the time of the
appointment of the officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENTS.
   All officers other than elective officers shall be appointed by the Mayor
and the City Council, as is provided by statute; provided that all employees
shall, in the absence of any provisions to the contrary be appointed or
selected by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 32.03 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every appointive officer of the city shall hold office until the
second Monday in May following his or her appointment, or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by
ordinance.
   (B)   In case of a vacancy in any such place, it shall be filled in the same
manner in which appointments or selections are made, in the absence of
provision to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 32.04 MONEYS RECEIVED.
   Every officer of the city shall, at least once each month, turn over all
money received by him or her in his or her official capacity, to the Treasurer
with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 32.05 OATH.
   Every officer of the city, shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
take the oath prescribed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 32.06 SALARIES.
   All officers and employees of the city shall receive such salary as may be
from time to time provided by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 32.07 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall have the power to assign to any appointive officer any duty
which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific officer; and shall
determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or duties of
officers.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
 
§ 32.08 RECORDS.
   All records kept by any officer of the city shall be open to inspection by
the Mayor, or any Alderman at all reasonable times, whether or not such records
are required to be kept by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
§ 32.09 BOND.
   Every officer and employee shall, if required by the City Council, upon
entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount and
with such sureties as may be determined by the said City Council, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 32.10 TERMINATION OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the city, upon the expiration of his or her
term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books
and records which may be the property of the city, and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office such property shall
be delivered to the City Clerk or City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
§ 32.11 IMPERSONATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate without lawful authority
any city officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.12 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of
the city while engaged in the duties of his or her office or employment.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.13 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor shall be elected for a term of
four years and shall be known as the “Mayor of Lacon”, as is provided by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
   (B)   Duties. He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the city and
shall perform all such duties as may be required of him or her by statute or
ordinance. He or she shall have supervision over all of the executive officers
of the city and over all of the employees of the city. He or she shall have the
power and authority to inspect all books and records kept by any city officer
or employees at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
   (C)   Designation of duties. Whenever there is a question as to the
respective powers or duties of any appointed officer of the city, this shall be
settled by the Mayor, and he or she shall have the power to delegate to any
such officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has
been directed to perform the duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
   (D)   Bond; oath; salary. Before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, the Mayor shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the City
Council conditioned upon his or her faithful performance of his or her duties,
in the sum of $3,000. He or she shall take the oath of office as prescribed by
statute, and shall receive such compensation as may be set from time to time by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem. During the temporary absence or disability of the
Mayor, the City Council shall elect one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem,
who, during the absence or disability of the Mayor, shall perform the duties
pertaining to the office.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 32.14 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The City Clerk shall be elected and serve
for a four-year term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified,
as provided by statute.
   (B)   Bond. Before entering his or her duties of office, the City Clerk
shall execute a bond in the amount of $3,000, conditioned up on the faithful
performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
   (C)   Signatures. The City Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
city and all licenses, permits and such other documents as shall require this
formality.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
   (D)   Money collected. The Clerk shall turn overall money received by him or
her on behalf of the city to the City Treasurer promptly upon receipt of the
same; and with such money he or she shall give a statement as to the source
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
   (E)   Accounts. The Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by
him or her and the source and disposition thereof; and such other accounts as
may be required by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)
   (F)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Clerk is required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register
of all licenses and permits issued; and the payments thereon; a record showing
all of the officers and regular employees of the city; and such other records
as may be required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
   (G)   Fees for copying records. The charge for certification of a document
by the City Clerk shall be $11 for the first certified copy of a document and
$8 for each additional certified copy of the same document.
   (H)   Seal. The Clerk shall be the custodian of the seal of the city which
are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-8)
   (I)   Documents. The Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the city which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-9)
   (J)   Indices. The Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
documents and records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and use
thereof may be had.
(Prior Code, § 4-10)
   (K)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided the Clerk
shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required by statute or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-11)
   (L)   Vacancies. In case the office of City Clerk shall become vacant for
any reason, the Mayor shall appoint a successor as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 4-12)
§ 32.15 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointed position.
      (1)   The Office of City Treasurer shall be an appointed position to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall be appointed to serve a four-year term and
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified, as provided by statute
with the first term of office to commence the second Monday of May, 1993.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
   (B)   Ex officio collector. The City Treasurer shall be an ex officio
collector and shall perform all the duties of that office.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
   (C)   Bond. He or she shall give a bond, before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, in the sum required by the City Council, but the amount
shall not be less than that required by statute. This bond shall be conditioned
upon the faithful performance of his or her duties by the Treasurer, and shall
be conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss by reason of any neglect of
duty or any act of the Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
   (D)   General duties. The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him or her by statute or ordinance. He or she shall receive all
money paid into the city, whether directly from the person paying the money, or
from the hands of such other officer or employee as may receive it, and he or
she shall pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the Mayor
and Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
   (E)   Deposit of funds. He or she shall deposit the city funds in such
depositories as may be selected from time to time as provided by law, and he or
she shall keep the deposit of the city money separate and distinct from his or
her own money, and shall not make private or personal use of any city money.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
   (F)   Records. He or she shall keep records showing all money received by
him or her, showing the source from which it is received and the purpose for
which it is paid, and he or she shall keep records at all times showing the
financial status of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
   (G)   Accounting. The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance, and he or she shall keep them in the manner
required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
   (H)   Special Assessment Fund. All moneys received on any special assessment
shall be held by the Treasurer as a special fund to be applied only to the
payment of the improvement, or bonds and vouchers issued therefor, together
with interest thereon, for which the assessment was made, and said money shall
be used for no other purpose, unless to reimburse the city for money expended
for such improvements. Payment on bonds or vouchers shall be made in accordance
with the statutes and the law and the Treasurer shall keep his or her books and
accounts in such a manner so that proper prorations in payments of principal
and interest can be made and ascertained.
(Prior Code, § 5-8)
   (I)   Warrants; transfer of funds. All warrants drawn on the Treasurer must
be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk, stating the particular
fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable, and the person to whom
payable; and no money shall be otherwise paid except as may be provided by
statute. Money shall not be transferred by the Treasurer from one fund to
another, after it has been received by him or her, nor appropriated to any
other purpose than that for which it has been collected or paid, except as may
be ordered by the Mayor and City Council in manner and form prescribed by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-9)
§ 32.16 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Superintendent
of Public Works, an executive office of the city. The Superintendent of Public
Works shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the
City Council.
   (B)   Streets. The Superintendent of Public Works shall have charge of the
construction, care and maintenance of all public streets, alleys and driveways
in the city. He or she shall see to it that all gutters and drains therein
function properly, and that the same are kept free from defects.
   (C)   Lighting. The Superintendent of Public Works shall supervise the
lighting of the public streets and alleys, and shall keep the lighting system
in efficient operation and good repair.
   (D)   Employees. All officers and employees assigned to the Department of
Public Works shall perform their duties subject to the orders and under the
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (E)   Property. The Superintendent of Public Works shall be the custodian of
all property of the city which is not assigned to the care or custody of any
other officer.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 32.17 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER WORKS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Superintendent
of Waterworks, an executive office of the city. The Superintendent of
Waterworks shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the advice and consent
of the City Council.
   (B)   Duties. The Superintendent of Waterworks shall have charge of the
operation and maintenance of the municipal water system.
   (C)   Employees. All officers or employees assigned to the Department of
Water Works shall perform their duties subject to the orders and under the
supervision of the Superintendent of Waterworks.
   (D)   Property. The Superintendent of Water Works shall be the custodian of
all tools and property of the city pertaining to the municipal waterworks and
shall be responsible for the care and custody of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
§ 32.18 REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   The city shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts: $1,000 (alcohol is specifically excluded from
reimbursement).
   (C)   No reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expenses for public
business incurred by a city employee or officer shall be authorized unless the
"Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", attached to
Ordinance 2017-1 as Exhibit A, and incorporated by reference as if set out in
full herein, has been submitted and approved. All documents and information
submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
   (D)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of any officer or employee
that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted
under division (B), or any member of the corporate authorities of the city, may
only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the corporate
authorities of the city. However, in the event of an emergency or other
extraordinary circumstances, the Mayor may approve more than the maximum
allowable expenses set forth above.
   (E)   The city shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or
officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities
which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from
the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Creation
   
33.02   Duties
   
33.03   Office of Chief created
   
33.04   Duties of Chief
   
33.05   Stolen property; custody of
   
33.06   Serving processes
   
33.07   Conduct of members
   
33.08   Witness fees
   
33.09   Rules and regulations
   
33.10   Special police officers
   
33.11   Hiring standards for part-time police officers
§ 33.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Department, which shall be an
executive department of the city. The Police Department shall consist of the
Chief of Police and such other regular or special police as may be provided by
ordinance or resolution. Each officer of the Police Department shall be, and
exercise the duties of, a police officer under the direction of the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   Each police officer shall be required to take and subscribe to an oath
of office as prescribed by law and abide by provisions of the City of Lacon
Police Department Manual.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)
§ 33.02 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to
the enforcement of all ordinances of the city, of all statutes effective in the
city, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and to arrest
violators thereof.
   (B)   Every member of the Police Department is hereby declared to be a
conservator of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
§ 33.03 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of Police Chief. The Chief shall be
appointed by the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
§ 33.04 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   He or she shall keep such records and make such reports concerning the
activities of his or her department as may be required by statute or ordinance.
The Chief shall be responsible for the performance by the Police Department of
all its functions, and all persons who are members of the department shall
serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
§ 33.05 STOLEN PROPERTY; CUSTODY OF.
   The Chief of Police shall be custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
§ 33.06 SERVING PROCESSES.
   The Chief of Police shall be authorized to serve writs, summons and other
processes, but no patrol officer shall serve any such summons or process except
on the order of the Chief of Police or of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
§ 33.07 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner, and to avoid the use of
unnecessary force.
(Prior Code, § 6-7)
§ 33.08 WITNESS FEES.
   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of a city ordinance or a
state or federal law; but no such member shall receive any witness fee for such
services in any action or suit to which the city is a party; all fees due for
such services shall, if paid, be turned over to the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6-8)
§ 33.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or describe such rules and regulations for the
guidance of the members of the Department as he or she shall see fit; such
rules, when approved by the Mayor and the City Council, shall be binding on
such members.
(Prior Code, § 6-9)
§ 33.10 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor with the approval of the City Council, may appoint any reputable
person as a special police officer to serve for such term and on such
conditions as may be designated by the terms of such appointment. Special
police officers shall have the powers and duties of a conservator of the peace,
and shall receive no compensation from the city, unless such compensation is
ordered by the City Council. Appointments may be revoked at any time by the
Mayor, the City Council or the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6-10)
§ 33.11 HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the City Police Department, but the number of hours a part-
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a certificate of completion of training in accordance with
the Illinois Police Training Act at time of hire or within one year;
      (5)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (6)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (7)   Possess no prior felony convictions;
      (8)   Possess no prior misdemeanor conviction for domestic violence; and
      (9)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the City Council, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the City Council at any time. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-11-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions for Water and Sewer
   
50.01   Bills
   
50.02   Delinquent bills
   
50.03   Disconnection of water service for non-payment
   
50.04   Lien; notice of delinquency
   
50.05   Foreclosure of lien
   
50.06   Revenues
   
50.07   Accounts
   
50.08   Access to records
   
50.09   Appointment of officers
   
50.10   Right to change rules
   
50.11   Destruction of pavement, sidewalk and curbs
   
50.12   Notice
Meters
   
50.25   Generally
   
50.26   Use of meters required
Water and Sewer Service Charges
   
50.60   Basics for wastewater service charges
   
50.61   Basic user charge
   
50.62   Debt service charge
   
50.63   Surcharge
   
50.64   Adequacy
   
50.65   Notice
   
50.66   Measurement of flow
   
50.67   Basic user charge
   
50.68   Debt service charge
   
50.69   Rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR WATER AND SEWER
§ 50.01 BILLS.
   (A)   Rates or charges for water and sewer service shall be payable monthly.
   (B)   The owner of the premises shall make application to the city for
service and be liable to pay for the service to such premises, and the service
is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises shall be liable thereto to the city. In no circumstance shall
anyone other than the owner of the premises make application for service or be
furnished service by the city.
   (C)   No free utility service shall be furnished to any person, public or
private, and all rates and charges shall be nondiscriminatory, provided that
the Mayor and City Council reserve the right to impose special rates and
charges in cases where particular circumstances render the regular rates
inadequate or unjust.
      (1)   Bills for water/sewer service shall be sent out by the City Clerk
or person under his or her direction on the first week of the billing cycle
succeeding the period for which the service is billed.
      (2)   All water/sewer bills are due and payable by the last day of the
billing month and shall be considered delinquent if not paid by that date. A
penalty of $5 of the unpaid balance per month shall be added to all bills not
paid by the last day of the billing month, except property that service has
been turned off and a lien has been filed against the property owner.
      (3)   In every case where a meter fails to register the quantity of water
used, the quantity shall be determined and a charge made based upon the
quantity registered during the same period of the preceding calendar year,
provided however, that the use of the property has substantially changed and it
would be impractical or inequitable to base a current charge on the consumption
from the same period of the preceding year, then the billing clerk shall be
authorized to estimate the consumption for the period of time in question based
on the consumption made by other comparable or similar users of the water
service for that period of time.
      (4)   For each lot, parcel of land, building or premises having a
connection with the wastewater system and being served with water solely by the
water utility, the water utility water meter used upon the premises shall
measure the quantity of wastewater for billing purposes.
      (5)   In the event that the owner or occupant of property receiving
services in the city issues a check in payment for any water and/or sewage
charges which are returned by a bank by reason of insufficient funds, a closed
account, or any other reason except an error by the bank, a $25 service charge
will be added to the account.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-1) (Ord. 2015-21, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-10, passed
11-14-2018; Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 50.02 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   If the charges for water and/or sewer charges are not paid in full within 30
days after the last day of the billing month for such services, such services
shall be discontinued subject to a hearing requested by the customer without
further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-2)
§ 50.03 DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   Whenever charges for water and/or sewer service or any additional
charges provided in this chapter are not paid within 30 days after the last day
of the billing month therefor, the City Clerk’s office is authorized and
directed to issue written notification that such delinquency exists and that
service shall be discontinued without further notice if such amounts are not
paid or disputed within five working days after the date such notice is mailed
or, in the event of personal service, delivered. It shall be the duty of the
Water Superintendent to secure copies of all delinquent notices from the City
Clerk’s office each month and to disconnect service to such delinquent user or
users at the end of five-working-day period if the delinquent amounts are not
paid. If charges are disputed, a hearing can be requested through the City
Clerk and must be requested before the disconnect date. If it is determined at
the hearing the bill is delinquent, payment will be due within 48 hours after
the hearing date. If no payment is received either five days after the
delinquency notice or 48 hours after a hearing, services will be disconnected.
All notifications required in this section shall be in writing and shall be
served on the person who applied for water service at the location in question
or said notification may be served on the person paying the real estate taxes
on the property in question in the last preceding year in which real estate
taxes were paid.
   (B)   Such notices may be served in the following manner:
      (1)   By personal service;
      (2)   With respect to the application for water service by regular mail
addressed to such applicant at the address last known to the City Clerk’s
office; or
      (3)   With respect to the person paying real estate taxes in the last
preceding year, by regular mail at the address at which the bill for such taxes
was mailed.
   (C)   Water service, which has been disconnected for nonpayment, shall not
be restored until:
      (1)   All delinquent charges for water service and/or wastewater service
are paid in full; and
      (2)   A fee of $50 is paid to the city for reconnection.
   (D)   Any such notice required by this section may be combined with a notice
for failure to pay sewer service charges.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-3)
§ 50.04 LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for water/sewer service remains unpaid for 60 days for
monthly service after it has been rendered, the City Clerk shall file with the
County Recorder of Deeds, a statement of lien claim.
   (B)   This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, the time period of the unpaid bill, and
a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      (1)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the City Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of
the premises if his or her address be known to the City Clerk, whenever such
bill remains unpaid for the period of 60 days for a monthly bill after it has
been rendered.
      (2)   The failure of the City Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice of the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-4)
§ 50.05 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be billed in equity in the name of the city. The City
Council may authorize and direct the City Attorney to institute such
proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such
matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid for 60 days
in the case of a monthly bill.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-5)
§ 50.06 REVENUES.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water/sewerage
system shall be deposited in the water/sewerage account of the Water and Sewer
Fund. All such revenues and moneys shall be held by the City Treasurer separate
and apart from her or his private funds and separate and apart from all other
funds of the city and all of said sum, without any deductions whatsoever, shall
be delivered to the City Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the Mayor and City Council. The City Treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the water/sewerage system and all other funds and moneys incident
to the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him or her and
deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the “Water/Sewerage
Fund of the City of Lacon”. Said Treasurer shall administer such fund in every
respect in the matter provided by the statute of the Revised Cities and
Villages Act of 1941, 65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-6)
§ 50.07 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water/sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the water/sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water/
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that water/
sewer services charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet
these regulations.
   (C)   In this regard, the financial information shown in the audit report
shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-7)
§ 50.08 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The IEPA or its authorized representatives shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the city which are applicable to the city
system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts
and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the loan
agreement and rules of any state loan.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-8)
§ 50.09 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall appoint such officers and agents as
may be deemed necessary for the operation of the water works and sewerage
system, and said Council shall determine the terms of office, duties and
compensation of such officers and agents.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the City Clerk, or person under his or
her direction, of said city to render bills for water service and all other
charges in connection therewith. The City Council shall appoint an officer or
agent to read all meters monthly.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-9)
§ 50.10 RIGHT TO CHANGE RULES.
   The City Council shall have the right to modify or change any of the
foregoing rules or make such additional rules and regulations as may be found
essential to a more perfect operation of the water works/sewerage system, and
to import such additional restrictions as may be deemed proper.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-10)
§ 50.11 DESTRUCTION OF PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK AND CURBS.
   The City Council reserves the right to charge the owner of the premises or
the occupant thereof for destruction of pavement, sidewalks and/or curbs if
damaged when water and/or sewer system is being installed.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-11)
§ 50.12 NOTICE.
   A copy of this title, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be filed
in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for water service
supplied any occupant or user of such service on their properties.
(Prior Code, § 18-1-12)
METERS
§ 50.25 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to install water meters on any premises to
measure the consumption of or by any user or to base periodic charges in whole
or in part of such consumption.
   (B)   Such meters and attachments thereto shall be and remain at all times
the property of the city, and shall be maintained in good condition and repair
at the expense of the city.
      (1)   All meters, when placed and ready for use, shall be sealed by the
Water Superintendent. Only licensed plumbers and those persons authorized by
the City Council shall have the right to place, work upon or repair such water
meters. It shall be unlawful and punishable by a fine as provided for in §
10.99 for any person or persons to tamper with, break or remove such seal, or
to cause any authorized person to work upon a water meter installed by the
city.
      (2)   Whenever a meter is installed, the Superintendent shall keep a
record of the date of installing and the dates of all repairs or maintenance of
the meter, and he or she shall read and record each meter monthly or as often
is deem necessary by the Superintendent.
      (3)   When service pipes are intended to supply two or more distinct
premises or tenements, and when only one service cock is used, the person or
persons controlling the same must pay the water rent of all parties thus
supplied as separate water bills will not be made.
(Prior Code, § 18-2-1)
§ 50.26 USE OF METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All new construction (residential and commercial) will be required to
have meters installed. Water service shall not be furnished to any new
construction as of the effective date of this chapter, unless the premises to
which water services are furnished are equipped with a water meter of suitable
size.
   (B)   The meter shall be placed outside of the building in a suitable pit to
be located at the curb or at some other suitable location, approved by the
Water Superintendent of the water works and/or sewerage system; and if the same
is impossible, said meters shall be placed at any other location approved by
the city water works and/or sewerage system.
(Prior Code, § 18-2-2)
WATER AND SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.60 BASICS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge, a debt
service charge, a capital improvement charge and applicable surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-1)
§ 50.61 BASIC USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance plus replacement (O, M & R) cost and shall be based on a flat rate
for non-metered customers and water meters for metered customers having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 250 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids content of 250 mg/l.
   (B)   The basic user charge may be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD and pounds of
SS to be treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the water and wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for
the year, for all work categories; and
      (3)   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS concentrations in
excess of normal domestic strengths.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-2)
§ 50.62 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt service
as fixed charge per billing period.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-3)
§ 50.63 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose water exceeds the normal
domestic concentrations of BOD (250 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the 250 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentrations for BOD and SS
respectively.
   (B)   The concentration of waste used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the city, and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-4)
§ 50.64 ADEQUACY.
   The adequacy of the water/wastewater service charge shall be reviewed not
less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The water/wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or O, M & R costs.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-5)
§ 50.65 NOTICE.
   The users of the water/wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation,
maintenance and replacement.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-6)
§ 50.66 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges for
metered customers shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest
even increments of gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public water
works system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the
person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the city if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-7)
§ 50.67 BASIC USER CHARGE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic user charge of $40 to
be applied to all users to recover O, M & R costs.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-8) (Ord. 2015-21, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-10, passed
11-14-2018; Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 50.68 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a debt service charge of $10
per month to each user of the water/wastewater facility.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-9) (Ord. 2015-21, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-10, passed
11-14-2018; Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 50.69 RATES.
   (A)   A minimum charge of $50 per month shall be applied to all users. This
minimum charge consists of $40 for O, M & R costs and $10 for debt service
costs. For all users situated outside the corporate limits of the city, the
rate is 150% of the corporate rate.
   (B)   In addition to the monthly minimum charge of $50 per month, metered
customer rates for usage in excess of 2,500 gallons per month will be charged
as follows. Metered service charges per month:
      (1)   Water service only: $3.25 per 1,000 gallons; and
      (2)   Sewer service only: $3.25 per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   There shall be and there are hereby established monthly water and
sewer rates and/or charges for the use of service supplied by the water works
system of the city to users located within the corporate limits based upon the
following schedule.
      (1)   Residential; unmetered:
         (a)   The water rate for unmetered residential usage shall be $27.50
per month; and
         (b)   The sewer rate is $22.50 per month.
      (2)   Commercial; unmetered:
         (a)   The water rate for unmetered commercial usage shall be $31 per
month; and
         (b)   The sewer rate is $26 per month.
      (3)   Multi-family or apartment; unmetered:
         (a)   The water rate for unmetered, multi-family or apartment
residential usage shall be $27.50 per dwelling unit per month; and
         (b)   The sewer rate is $22.50 per dwelling unit per month.
      (4)   Mobile home park; unmetered:
         (a)   The water rate charged to or for the mobile home park shall be
$27.50 per dwelling unit per month; and
         (b)   The sewer rate is $22.50 per dwelling unit per month.
      (5)   City; unmetered: the water rate charged to and for the city shall
be $200.50 per month.
      (6)   Airport water; unmetered: the water rate charged to or for the
county airport shall be $80 per month.
      (7)   Vacant rate; unmetered: there is no vacant rate available. Water
service will be shut off as a courtesy to any user who wishes to have water
service terminated during a vacancy, but will pay a sum of: water rate is
$27.50 per month; sewer rate is $22.50 per month.
      (8)   Residential rates for users outside corporate limits; unmetered:
         (a)   The water rate for any user whose premises are situated outside
of the corporate limits of the city shall be $40 per month; and
         (b)   The sewer rate for any user whose premises are situated outside
of the corporate limits of the city shall be $35 per month.
      (9)   Commercial; metered: the water and sewer rate for metered
commercial usage shall be $50 per month, with an additional sum fixed according
to the following schedule: where water consumption per month is more than 2,500
gallons, the sum $3.25 per 1,000 gallons.
      (10)   Park District (swimming pool); metered: according to an
intergovernmental agreement between the city and the Lacon Park District, the
city will fill the swimming pool free of charge, at the beginning of each swim
season in exchange for a permanent easement across Park District property for a
water main and sewer. The water and sewer rate for metered commercial usage
will be used.
      (11)   Rates for users outside the corporate limits; metered:
         (a)   A minimum charge of $40 for water shall be applied to all users;
and
         (b)   A minimum charge of $35 for sewer shall be applied to all users.
      (12)   In addition to the monthly minimum charge per month, metered
customer outside the corporate limits rates for usage in excess of 2,500
gallons per month will be charged as follows. Metered service charges per
month:
         (a)   Water service only: $4.75 per 1,000 gallons; and
         (b)   Sewer service only: $4.75 per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 18-6-10) (Ord. 2015-21, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 2018-10, passed
11-14-2018; Ord. 2024-19, passed 11-13-2024)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Water System Provisions
   
51.01   Application
   
51.02   Installation of service
   
51.03   Connection fees
   
51.04   Owner responsibility to maintain water use system
   
51.05   Waste of water
   
51.06   Right of city to inspect
   
51.07   Additional taps
   
51.08   Diversion of water, separate connections and meters
   
51.09   Liability of city for damages, interruption of service and the like
   
51.10   Fluoride
   
51.11   Fire hydrants, valves
Water Rationing
   
51.25   Water conservation stages
   
51.26   Reports and review of rationing
   
51.27   Repeal of water rationing
   
51.28   Responsibility
Municipal/Private Company Regulations on Cross-Connection Control
   
51.40   General policy
   
51.41   Definitions
   
51.42   Water system
   
51.43   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.44   Survey and investigations
   
51.45   Where protection is required
   
51.46   Type of protection required
   
51.47   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.48   Inspection and maintenance
   
51.49   Booster pumps
   
51.50   Cross-connection control
   
51.51   Violation
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL WATER SYSTEM PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 APPLICATION.
   Applications for water must be directed to the Superintendent of the Water
Works of the city by the owner of the premises for which water is sought to be
supplied, or by his or her duly authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-1)
§ 51.02 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water Superintendent or person authorized by him or her will tap
the main, inserting a stopcock which shall be known as the corporation cock.
   (B)   He or she shall connect the service pipe and lay it to within one foot
inside the curb line, or just outside of the lot line if in an alley and there
set a stop cock, which shall be known as the service cock, together with the
service cock box.
      (1)   One service pipe may be used to supply water to all buildings
within the property lines of the lot providing that the service line is
connected to a tap used for that lot only.
      (2)   There shall be a stop and waste cock attached to every supply pipe
at the point where it enters the building so as to permit the water being shut
off if necessary.
      (3)   All taps through one inch must be approved by the Water
Superintendent. Larger taps must have Council approval.
      (4)   No connections with the mains shall be made during freezing weather
unless approved by the Superintendent.
      (5)   The homeowner will be charged a tap fee. The location and length of
the pipe connections necessary shall be determined by the Water Superintendent.
The homeowner shall furnish his or her own pipe, dig his or her trench, and
connect onto the service box at his or her own cost.
      (6)   No trench shall be dug in any street or alley of the city without
written permission of the Water Superintendent and under his or her
supervision; and in case the city elects to push the water pipe through the
ground, instead permitting a trench to be dug, the applicant for water shall
pay the charge for use of the pusher, as fixed by the Water Superintendent.
      (7)   The city will hereafter maintain the same service to present users
of its water service, as the occasion therefor arises, as that provided in this
section for new users.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-2) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 CONNECTION FEES.
   Established rates for water and sewer connection fees:
 
Residential Buildings                   Water Sewer Total
Single-family houses; 1-inch service    $600  $600  $1,200
Multi-family apartments; 1-inch service $600  $600  $1,200
 
 
Commercial Buildings             Water  Sewer  Total
1-inch water meter, per unit     $600   $600   $1,200
1-1/2-inch water meter, per unit $800   $800   $1,600
2-inch water meter, per unit     $1,000 $1,000 $2,000
 
(Prior Code, § 18-3-4) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 51.04 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY TO MAINTAIN WATER USE SYSTEM.
   It is the responsibility of the owner of the premises to maintain in proper
working order the water use system from the city curb stop and/or the property
line and within his or her premises at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-5) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   If it shall be found that there is an unreasonable or unnecessary
waste of water in any building, structure or premises to which water is
supplied from the city’s water works system, through or by means of a leak in
any water pipe located in any such building, structure or in or on any such
premises, the water works and sewerage system may cause the water supply to be
cut off from such building, structure or premises; unless such waste shall be
stopped or shall cease within 24 hours after there shall have been given notice
to the owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of such
building, structure or premises to stop such waste.
   (B)   In cases where the water supply is cut off from any building,
structure or premises on account of neglect, failure or refusal of any person
so notified to stop such leak, the water supply shall not again be turned on
until the cost and expense to the city of cutting off and again turning on such
water supply shall have been paid by such owner, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 RIGHT OF CITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   The Water Superintendent or any person duly authorized by him or her
shall have authority to enter upon any premises supplied with water by the city
at all reasonable times to read, repair or replace any water meter(s) placed
thereon.
   (B)   All plumbing work shall be done in accordance with standards as set
forth in the State Plumbing Code and all work underground shall be subject to
inspection prior to being covered up.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-7)
§ 51.07 ADDITIONAL TAPS.
   Application must be made and permission obtained for making any additional
taps for any house, residence or business place beyond that for which
permission may have already been granted.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-8)
§ 51.08 DIVERSION OF WATER, SEPARATE CONNECTIONS AND METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity connected to the water
works of the city to divert in any manner whatsoever any city water to any
premises that has not been duly connected to the city water by the duly
authorized personnel of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-9) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 LIABILITY OF CITY FOR DAMAGES, INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE AND THE LIKE.
   No claim shall be made against the city by reason of the breaking of any
main or service pipe or cock or any other interruption of the supply by reason
of breakage or stoppage for necessary repairs.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-10)
§ 51.10 FLUORIDE.
   Upon receiving the consent and approval of the State Department of Public
Health and until further direction of the City Council, the Water Department is
hereby authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with the
introduction of approximately one part of fluorine as fluoride to every
1,000,000 parts of water by weight being distributed in the water supply system
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-11)
§ 51.11 FIRE HYDRANTS, VALVES.
   (A)   No person or persons shall open any fire hydrant or draw water
therefrom, except the Water Superintendent and persons under his or her
direction, or with his or her permission, except in case of fire, when the
Chief of the Fire Department, his or her assistant, officers and members of the
Fire Department shall have free and entire control of the hydrants for the
purpose of extinguishing fire. The Fire Chief will notify the Water
Superintendent before flushing and after a fire. The Water Superintendent shall
notify the City Clerk’s office to notify residents when fire hydrants are going
to be flushed.
   (B)   No person or persons, except the Water Superintendent and employees
under his or her direction, shall open or close any valve or gate in any water
main or street pipe, or in any manner interfere with or obstruct the same.
(Prior Code, § 18-3-12) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATER RATIONING
§ 51.25 WATER CONSERVATION STAGES.
   The following water conservation stages shall be in effect at the following
times; when either Stage A or Stage B water rationing is in effect, no person,
firm or corporation shall use any water in violation of any provision of this
subchapter.
   (A)   Stage A Rationing.
      (1)   Stage A rationing will be in effect starting June 1 through
September 30 and/or whenever the City Water Department recommends to the City
Council that water use be restricted to Stage A rationing based upon the number
of gallons pumped, and the City Council approves said recommendation by a
majority vote.
      (2)   The following requirements shall be in effect.
         (a)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published a notice that Stage A
water rationing is in effect. The announcement shall contain a description of
the restriction and penalties that apply to Stage A water rationing.
         (b)   No person shall use any water sprinkler, sprinkling or
perforated soaker hose to water any lawn, garden, shrub, tree or flower between
10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.. These restrictions shall apply to all residences and
to all businesses and institutions having lawns, gardens, trees or shrubs, and
shall be followed at all parks and public buildings owned by the city.
   (B)   Stage B Rationing.
      (1)   Stage B water rationing will be in effect June 1 through September
30 and/or whenever the City Water Department recommends to the City Council
that water use be restricted to Stage B water rationing based upon the number
of gallons pumped, mechanical failure of any kind, any water emergency or
whenever the Superintendent deems necessary, and the City Council approves said
recommendation.
      (2)   The following requirements shall be in effect.
         (a)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published a notice that Stage B
water rationing is in effect. The announcement shall contain a description of
the restrictions and penalties that apply to Stage B water rationing.
         (b)   No person shall use any water sprinkler, sprinkling device or
perforated soaker hose to water any garden, tree, shrub or flowers.
         (c)   No water shall be used from a hose to wash automobiles, except
at places of business where autos are washed every business day either with
attendants, with automatic equipment or by self-service.
(Prior Code, § 18-4-1) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 REPORTS AND REVIEW OF RATIONING.
   The Water Superintendent will make reports to the City Council at each
regular City Council meeting while water rationing is in effect. The City
Council will review the reports and consider any changes that may be desirable
in the regulations set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-4-2)
§ 51.27 REPEAL OF WATER RATIONING.
   It is policy of the city to keep Stage B in effect for no longer than
necessary. The Water Department Supervisor and City Council shall take steps to
lift Stage B restrictions as soon as lifting the restrictions will not result
in the city’s water supply falling below unsafe levels. Upon a majority vote of
the City Council to repeal a water rationing stage then in effect, the City
Clerk shall cause to be published a notice stating that the water stage has
been terminated.
(Prior Code, § 18-4-3)
§ 51.28 RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person shall be convicted of violating this subchapter unless such person
in fact turned on water, directed the turning on of water, or kept water turned
on after learning it was turned on in violation of this subchapter, or failed
to turn off automatic devices capable of turning on water in violation of this
subchapter. It will not be necessary, however, to present a witness who saw the
accused turning on water in violation of this subchapter. It will not be
necessary, however, to present a witness who saw the accused turning on the
water, if the circumstances indicated the accused did turn on the water, or
allowed water to remain on after learning it was turned on in violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-4-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
MUNICIPAL/PRIVATE COMPANY REGULATIONS
ON CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.40 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control, which will prevent the contamination of pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public and consumer’s potable water systems of the city.
   (C)   Policy. The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or backsiphonage of contaminants through the customer water service connection.
If, in the opinion of the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water shall
give notice to the customer to install such approved backflow prevention device
at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately
install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense; failure,
refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or
devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer
shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair as
required in §
51.44(D)(4) for a period of at least five years. The Superintendent of Water
may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the
city to assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be
required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a Cross-
Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-1)
§ 51.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineer, American Water Works
Association, American National Sanitation Institute or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. This auxiliary water may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree that could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water, and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify a HEALTH HAZARD means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of Ill. Adm. Code, Title 35.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection of such building
drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system five feet beyond
the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of Ill. Adm. Code, Title
35 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced
into the public or consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connection or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCE PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
all the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system, and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-2)
§ 51.42 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-3)
§ 51.43 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   Connection between potable water systems and other systems or equipment
containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable quality are
prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control devices or
methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper operation on a
continuing basis.
   (A)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
   (B)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-4)
§ 51.44 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and backsiphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions; and
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with Ill. Rev. Stat.
1987, Ch. 111-1/2, par. 1004(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the
most recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repair and date completed; and
            6.   Serving performed and date completed.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-5)
§ 51.45 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 681. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where, in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source are approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water system. This shall include
premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impartial to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and/or
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency’s regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653; in addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities, unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-6)
§ 51.46 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
51.45(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) shall depend on the degree of hazard which
exists as follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard;
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principal backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard; or
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system maybe polluted
with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
51.45(B)(4) and (B)(5) shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety system connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-7)
§ 51.47 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society Engineering or American National Standard
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-8)
§ 51.48 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspection indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made effective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-9)
§ 51.49 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low-
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
§ 51.50 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the city, shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. That, if in
accordance with State Plumbing Code or in the judgement of the Superintendent
of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of
the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to
the water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State
Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and
as required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency
and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, the auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two years, or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary.
Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a
period of at least five years.
   (D)   The approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the city for purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information, which he
or she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, is deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Water of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains.
      (1)   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of $50 is paid to the city.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the State
Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
      (2)   Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, or
his or her or its agent or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any
injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said
customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether
or not said termination was with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned or backpressure material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)
§ 51.51 VIOLATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with theses regulation and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the city, the Superintendent of Water, or his, her or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury,
damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s
water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said
termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or if improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served with written notice, stating the notice of violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
(Prior Code, § 18-5-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
51.25 through
51.28 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more that $100 upon a first
conviction of §§
51.25 through
51.28, and for each subsequent offense shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 18-4-6)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Sewer System Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Unlawful deposits
   
52.004   Use of public sewers required
   
52.005   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
52.006   Appeals procedures
   
52.007   Appeals; service charges
   
52.008   Validity
   
52.009   Amendment
   
52.010   Effective date
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.025   Connection permit required
   
52.026   Sewer contractors registration
   
52.027   Standards
   
52.028   Permit application written
   
52.029   Connection fees
   
52.030   Downstream sewage facilities
   
52.031   Cost to be borne by owner
   
52.032   Separate sewers required for each new building
   
52.033   Use of old building sewers
   
52.034   Conformance to regulations required
   
52.035   Clearwater connections prohibited
   
52.036   Inspection and tests
   
52.037   Protection from public hazard
   
52.038   Sewer main extensions
Public Sewer User Restrictions
   
52.050   Discharge prohibited generally
   
52.051   Discharge of unpolluted waters to sanitary sewers generally prohibited
   
52.052   Control of high strength, toxic wastes directed to public sewers
   
52.053   High strength flow or toxic discharges subject to review and approval
   
52.054   Interceptors
   
52.055   Monitoring manholes and locations
   
52.056   Tests
   
52.057   Septic tank and holding tank waste disposal
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.070   Use
   
52.071   Permit
   
52.072   Inspection
   
52.073   Approval
   
52.074   Connection to public sewer
   
52.075   Owner shall bear expense
   
52.076   Additional requirements
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.090   Right of entry
   
52.091   Easement
   
52.092   Indemnification
Basis for Sewer Service Charges
   
52.105   Metering of industrial waste
   
52.106   Waste sampling
   
52.107   Change categories
   
52.108   No free service
Billing Practice
   
52.120   Billing period
   
52.121   Liability of owner
   
52.122   Delinquent charges; lien; collection
   
52.123   Affidavits; recording
   
52.124   Enforcement
   
52.125   Disconnection of sewer and/or water services
   
52.126   Monthly sewer charges
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL SEWER SYSTEM PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter regulates the use of public and private sewers and
drains, discharge of septage into the public sewerage system, and the discharge
of waters and wastes into the public sewerage system within the city. It
provides for and explains the method used for levying and collecting wastewater
treatment service charges, sets uniform requirements for discharge into the
treatment system, and enables the city to comply with administrative
provisions, and other discharge criteria which are required or authorized by
the state or federal law. Its intent is to derive the maximum public benefit by
regulating the characteristics of wastewater discharged into the city sewerage
system.
   (B)   This chapter provides a means for determining wastewater and septage
volumes, constituents and characteristics, the setting of charges and fees, and
the issuing of permits to certain users. Revenues derived from the application
of this chapter shall be used to defray the costs of operating and maintaining
adequate wastewater collection and treatment systems and to provide sufficient
funds for capital outlay, debt service costs and capital improvements. The
charges and fees herein have been established pursuant to requirement of the
state statues. This chapter shall supersede any previous ordinance, rules or
regulations; and shall repeal all parts thereof that may be inconsistent with
this chapter. If there is any conflict between this chapter and any applicable
statute, the state statute shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 18-7)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN (NH3-N). One of the oxidation states of nitrogen, in which
nitrogen is combined with hydrogen in molecular form as NH3 or in ionized form
as NH4+. Quantitative determination of AMMONIA NITROGEN shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The City Council of the City of Lacon, or its duly
authorized deputy, agent or representative, which shall include, but not be
limited to, the City of Lacon Wastewater Treatment Plant personnel.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20°C, expressed as
milligrams per liter. Quantitative determination of BOD shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Lacon, Illinois
   COMMERCIAL USER.  Any user whose premises are used primarily for the conduct
of a profit-oriented enterprise in the fields of construction, wholesale or
retail trade, finance, insurance, real estate or services.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE (24 HOURS). The combination of individual samples taken at
intervals of not more than one hour.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, ammonia
nitrogen pH, or fecal chloroform bacteria, plus additional pollutants
identified in the NPDES permit for the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the pollutants if such works was designed to treat such additional pollutants,
and in part does not remove such pollutants to a substantial degree.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. Structure location on a site from which wastewater of
greater than normal domestic strength is discharged. Where feasible, the
manhole shall have an interior drop. The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to
provide access for the approving authority and owner to obtain a representative
sample and/or measure discharges.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq.) as
amended (Pub. L. No. 95-217).
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL SAMPLE. Sample taken that is proportional to the volume of
flow during the sampling period.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of food products and produce.
   ILLINOIS STATE PLUMBING CODE. The code and appendices adopted May 16, 1986
by the State Department of Public Health and any subsequent amendments thereto
under the Illinois Plumbing Code Law. All pertinent parts or sections of said
code are adopted and made part of this chapter as through those parts or
sections were fully set out herein.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user whose premises are used primarily for the conduct
of a profit-oriented enterprise in the fields of manufacturing, dairy products
processing, meat processing, other food and drink products, painting or
finishing operations, transportation, communications or utilities, mining,
agriculture, forestry or fishing.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any trade or process waste as distinct from segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INTERCEPTING SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to convey sewage from a
collection system or systems to a wastewater treatment plant. Size of the sewer
is not a factor.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER or mg/l. A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in 1,000 ml of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water
or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sanitary sewage resulting from the range of normal
domestic activities, in which BOD and SS concentrations do not exceed normal
concentration of: a five-day, 20°C, BOD of nor more than 250 mg/l; a suspended
solids content of not more than 300 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to §
402 of the Federal Act.
   OWNER. The person or persons who have legal responsibility for building or
property.
   PERSON. Any and all persons including any individual, firm, company,
municipal or private corporation, association, society, institution,
enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen concentration of
10-7.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 80
gallons of sewage per day, containing 15 pounds of BOD and 20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. An arrangement of devices and structures, for the preliminary
treatment or processing of wastewater required to render such wastes acceptable
for admission to the public sewers.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLIC USER. Any user whose premises are used for the conduct of the
legislative, judicial, administrative or regulatory activities of federal,
state, local or international units of government; government-owned educational
facilities; government-owned health facilities; or government-owned
recreational facilities. This does not include government-owned or operated
business establishments.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances that are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT USER (REU). An average residential household
contributing 200 gallons/day (80 gallons per person) of wastewater with CBOD
and suspended solids loading of not more than 375 pounds per day and 50 pounds
per day, respectively.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments or permanent multi-family dwellings discharging sanitary wastes.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. A combination of water carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial plants (other than industrial
wastes from such plants), together with such ground, surface and storm waters
as may be present.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carried sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. Wastes from nonresidential sources resulting
from normal domestic activities. These activities are distinguished from
industrial, trade and/or process discharge wastes.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. The composite network of underground conduits carrying
wastewater and appurtenances incidental thereto (i.e., manholes, lift stations,
service lateral).
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the system and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Wastes, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Federation of Sewage
and Industrial Wastes Associations.
   STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED “STORM SEWER”). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
sewers.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, wastewater or other liquid, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods and are referred to as
non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC DISCHARGES. Discharge containing a substance or mixture of substances
which, through sufficient exposure, or ingestion, inhalation or assimilation by
an organism, either directly from the environment or indirectly by ingestion
through the food chain, will, on the basis of information available to the
Department, cause death, disease, behavior or immunological abnormalities,
cancer, genetic mutation or developmental or physiological malfunctions,
including malfunctions in reproduction or physical deformations, in such
organisms or their offspring.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for the
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of wastewater, liquid industrial
wastes and sludge. These systems include wastewater collection systems,
pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenances; any works that are
an integral part of the treatment process or are used for ultimate disposal of
residues from such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal or
industrial wastes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Control Regulations
of Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 18-7)
§ 52.003 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 18-7-1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located
available public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install a suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 120 days after date upon which the City
Council certifies that said sanitary sewers are completed and ready for use,
provided that said public sewer available as defined below.
   (B)   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER shall mean sanitary sewer within 200
feet of any property line describing the lot or tract in question, which
discharge into the city treatment facility; provided, however that where a
sanitary sewer lies within 200 feet of any property line describing the lot or
tract in question but the building to be served lies more than 200 feet from
the sanitary sewer, then such sanitary sewer shall not be considered an
available sanitary sewer within the meaning of this section if the City Council
determines by resolution that all the following conditions have been met:
      (1)   The building will be connected to an alternative sewage disposal
system which is constructed and operated in accordance with regulations adopted
from time to time by the County Health Department;
      (2)   The proposed alternative sewage disposal system will not in the
opinion of the City Engineer adversely affect public health; and
      (3)   The estimated cost of attaching the building to be served to the
closet sanitary sewer exceeds the cost of an alternative sewage disposal system
by a factor of two.
(Prior Code, § 18-7-2)
§ 52.005 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment that is a part of the sewage works.
Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of damage to public property.
(Prior Code, § 18-11-1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006 APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any user, permit applicant or permit holder affected by any decision,
action or determination, including cease and desist orders, made by the city
interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter or in any permit
issued herein, may file with the city a written request for reconsideration
within ten days setting forth in detail the facts supporting a user’s request
for reconsideration.
   (B)   The city shall render a decision on the request for reconsideration to
the user, permit applicant or permit holder in writing 15 days of receipt of
request.
(Prior Code, § 18-14-1)
§ 52.007 APPEALS; SERVICE CHARGES.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §§
50.60 through
50.69 shall be made available to a user within 14 days of receipt of a written
request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations
thereof shall be remedied by the city with 45 days after notification of a
formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Prior Code, § 18-18)
§ 52.008 VALIDITY.
   Invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision in this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other section, clause, sentence or
provision of this chapter, which can be given effect without such invalid part
or parts.
(Prior Code, § 18-17-2)
§ 52.009 AMENDMENT.
   The city, through its duly authorized officers, reserves the right to amend
this chapter, in part or in whole, whenever it may deem necessary, but such
right will be exercised only after due notice to all persons concerned and
after proper hearing on the proposed amendment.
(Prior Code, § 18-17-3)
§ 52.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from January 1, 2016 and
after its passage and approval and publication as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 18-19-1)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.025 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening into,
alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the Sewer Superintendent. An application for a
permit shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk.
   (B)   In every case of a proposed sewer connection, notice shall be given to
the Sewer Superintendent, specifying the time and place where the work is to
commence. Such shall be in writing and given at least one full day prior to the
commencement of the work.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 SEWER CONTRACTORS REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person who desires to engage in or who shall hereafter at any time
engage in the business of the construction, alternation or repair of any
building sewers within the city shall, before commencing such work, make
application to the City Clerk for registration as a sewer contractor and shall
deliver to the Clerk his or her certificate of bond from one of two sureties to
be approved by the Council in the amount of $10,000, payable to the city.
   (B)   In addition, the contractor shall provide to the City Clerk insurance
certified verifying $500,000 of public liability insurance which name the city,
its officers and employees, additional insureds with respect to any and all
costs and liabilities for damage to persons or property by reason of or
resulting directly or indirectly from the construction, alteration, maintenance
or repair by such person of any building sewer or any work or act of omission
or commission incidental thereto. Upon approval of the said bond by the
Council, the City Clerk shall forthwith issue to such applicant a certificate
of registration to operate as a sewer contractor within the city. No
registration shall be complete until the applicant pays to the City Clerk an
annual registration fee of $100. Registration shall be valid for one year from
the date of issuance of the certificate and is not refundable. A sewer
contractor shall, at all times, comply with all provisions of this chapter, and
any street, alley, sidewalk or pavement disturbed by him or her must be
returned to and left in at least as good a condition as before the work was
commenced.
   (C)   An owner or occupant of a single-family residence or duplex dwelling
shall not be considered a sewer contractor for the purpose of this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-2)
§ 52.027 STANDARDS.
   All disposals by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-3) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 PERMIT APPLICATION WRITTEN.
   (A)   The permit application shall state the name of the person intended to
have charge of the work, and shall be accompanied by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Sewer
Superintendent. At a minimum, plans showing the nature and extent of the
proposed work shall be submitted with the application.
   (B)   Except in project areas where Federal Community Development Block
Grant funds and other low-income targeted intergovernmental revenues are used
for sewer system improvements, the property owner shall be required to pay a
tap fee to the city to defray the cost of installing sewer mains constructed
after the effective date of this chapter (except in areas where public
improvements are financed by special assessment or special service areas).
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by the City Council ordinance on a site-
specific basis or by this chapter, a fee of $25 for each connection desired to
the municipal sewage system shall be submitted with the application. This cost
shall be for the administrative expense of processing the application and one
inspection by the city. The owner shall pay the costs of any additional
inspection that may be required for quality assurance.
   (D)   No sewer installation permit shall be issued until after plans and
specifications showing the proposed plumbing work have been submitted, reviewed
and approved by the city. If a plumbing permit is denied, the applicant shall
submit revised plans and specifications. When it is found necessary to make any
change in the plumbing from the plans and specifications on which a permit has
been issued, amended plans and specifications shall be submitted to the city
for approval prior to making any change in the plumbing system.
   (E)   Minor repairs which do not require changes in the piping to or from
plumbing fixtures or involve the removal, replacement, installation or re-
installation of any pipe or plumbing fixtures and no plumbing permit is
required.
   (F)   The industrial or commercial user as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (G)   Whenever any work for which a permit has been issued hereunder if not
commenced within six months after the issuance of said permit, or if the work
is not satisfactorily completed after its commencement, such permit shall be
considered as having expired and shall be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-4)
§ 52.029 CONNECTION FEES.
   Established rates for water and sewer connection fees:
 
Residential Buildings                   Water Sewer Total
Single-family houses; 1-inch service    $600  $600  $1,200
Multi-family apartments; 1-inch service $600  $600  $1,200
 
 
Commercial Buildings             Water  Sewer  Total
1-inch water meter, per unit     $600   $600   $1,200
1-1/2-inch water meter, per unit $800   $800   $1,600
2-inch water meter, per unit     $1,000 $1,000 $2,000
 
(Prior Code, § 18-3-4) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 52.030 DOWNSTREAM SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   A sewer installation permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
transport and treat the additional waste load.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-5)
§ 52.031 COST TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   (A)   Where it can be identified that a new sewer line must be oversized or
upsized, beyond the minimum sizes required to serve residential customers and
normal nonresidential flows, to service a particular commercial or industrial
facility, the owner(s) of such commercial or industrial facilities will be
required to pay a fee equal to the extra capital cost directly attributable to
that facility’s waste flow prior to making connection.
   (B)   Except in project areas where Federal Community Development Block
Grant Funds and other low-income targeted intergovernmental revenues are used
for sewer system improvements the following is required.
      (1)   All costs incident to the installation and connection of building
sewers shall be borne by the owner.
      (2)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (3)   All equipment, material and labor required for testing a plumbing
system or any part thereof is the responsibility of the owner.
      (4)   The maintenance of the building sewer to the point of connection to
the municipal sewer system shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Streets and rights-of-way shall be restored in accordance with the
city’s street restoration requirements.
   (D)   Wherever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-6)
§ 52.032 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED FOR EACH NEW BUILDING.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
new or upgraded building construction.
   (B)   A variance may be requested from the City Council from this criterion.
The request for variance shall include a description of the proposed new or
modified system, the reason the variance is needed, and any plans necessary to
adequately show the proposed system.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-7)
§ 52.033 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Existing building sewers may be used in connection with newly constructed
buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the city to meet
all requirements of this chapter and the State Department of Public Health
Plumbing Code. Where necessary, banding (approved by the city) will be used to
join new PVC fitting to older clay or other existing pipe material.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-8)
§ 52.034 CONFORMANCE TO REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer including,
but not limited to: the size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer; the methods to be used in excavating and placing of the pipe;
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the State Plumbing Code and any other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control
Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in the state shall apply.
   (B)   Any deviation from the pre-described procedures and materials must be
approved by the city before installation.
   (C)   The ends of all pipes not to be connected immediately shall be
securely stopped by a water-tight plug of durable material manufactured for
said purpose.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-9)
§ 52.035 CLEARWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, footing drainage, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water
into any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Sanitary or domestic sewage may be taken to include basement floor
drainage; however, this shall not include any storm or groundwater
intentionally or knowingly conveyed to the basement floor, and from said
basement floor to and into the sanitary sewer system. Sump pumps installed and
used for this purpose are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-10)
§ 52.036 INSPECTION AND TESTS.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   A plumbing system/sewer installation or any part thereof shall not
be enclosed, covered or used until after such system has been inspected and
approved and a certificate of approval has been issued by the Sewer
Superintendent. It is the responsibility of the holder of the connection permit
to arrange for such inspection with the Superintendent at least 24 hours before
such inspection is to be made. Tests shall be made by the permit holder and
observed by the Superintendent or other authorized representative of the city.
Plumbing found not to be in compliance with the Plumbing Code or otherwise
defective or unsafe shall not be approved. The use of a plumbing system not
complying with the provision of the Plumbing Code or found to be defective or
unsafe shall not be approved until such time as such plumbing system is brought
into compliance with the Plumbing Code. The city reserves the right to
disconnect any building sewer that is not in such compliance.
      (2)   Roughed-in inspections shall be made when the plumbing is roughed-
in and before fixtures are set. Plumbing work shall not be closed-in, concealed
or covered until it has been inspected and approved by the Superintendent.
      (3)   Upon completion of the plumbing work and before final approval is
given, the Superintendent shall inspect the plumbing and observe the final
tests of the plumbing system to ensure compliance with the requirements of the
Plumbing Code.
      (4)   A re-inspection, at owners cost, is mandatory whenever a plumbing
system is found not in compliance with the Plumbing Code. It is the
responsibility of the plumbing permit holder to arrange for re-inspection of
the plumbing system by the Superintendent. Request for re-inspection shall be
made at least 24 hours before such inspection is to be made.
      (5)   All new, altered, extended, replaced or repaired plumbing shall be
left uncovered and unconcealed until after it has been tested and approved.
When plumbing work has been covered or concealed prior to being tested and
approved, it shall be exposed for testing. It is the responsibility of the
permit holder to expose plumbing for inspection purposes.
   (B)   Testing of plumbing system. New plumbing systems or systems which have
been altered, extended or repaired shall be tested as prescribed in the State
Plumbing Code to disclose leaks and defects, except that testing may be waived
in the following cases:
      (1)   In any case which does not include addition to, replacement,
alteration or relocation of any water supply, drainage or vent piping; and
      (2)   In any case where plumbing equipment may be set up temporarily for
exhibition purposes.
   (C)   Defective work. Defective work where there is reason to believe that
the plumbing system is defective, it shall be subjected to tests, inspected,
and any defects found shall be corrected. Defective work shall be corrected
within ten days following such inspection, or as the Superintendent may direct
and the work shall be re-inspected at owners cost.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-11)
§ 52.037 PROTECTION FROM PUBLIC HAZARD.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-12)
§ 52.038 SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   In addition to all other pertinent sections of this chapter, any person
requesting an extension of the public sanitary sewer main may be responsible
for all the following.
   (A)   Designs of any proposed sewer extension shall be performed by an
engineering consultant selected by the city. The resulting construction plans
and specifications shall be reviewed and approved by the city prior to
submittal to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). All plans
shall conform to the standards of the IEPA, and such additional requirements
and standards that the city may establish, and shall be prepared by a
professional engineer registered to practice in the state. Full-time
construction observation and contract administration shall be performed by the
city’s engineer.
   (B)   The person requesting the sewer extension shall secure all required
utility easements, the location and width of which will be determined by the
city. The city will furnish blank easement forms to the person who will be
responsible for the proper legal description of the easement parcel and for the
proper execution of the easement by the grantor. All completed easements shall
be submitted at the County Register of Deeds office by the city.
   (C)   The person requesting the sewer extensions shall also execute any
other special agreements deemed necessary by the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-8-13)
PUBLIC SEWER USER RESTRICTIONS
§ 52.050 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes (hereinafter prohibited
substances), or additional waste, if it appears likely, in the opinion of the
city, that such wastes can harm either the sewers sewage treatment process or
equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
city will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies.
   (C)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow of sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, paunch manure, entrails and paper dishes,
cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing oils, whether emulsified or not, in
excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (7)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; the installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of greater than
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentration plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substance; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city, EPA or other regulatory agency for such materials;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city, EPA or other regulatory agency as necessary after
treatment, to such degree that any such material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the
city, EPA or other regulatory agency for such materials;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (14)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.05 mg/l at any time, except as
permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (15)   Material that exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (16)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-1) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS TO SANITARY SEWERS GENERALLY
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, non-contact
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer,
except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and any appropriate regulatory agency.
   (C)   Industrial cooling water, unpolluted process waters or non-contact
cooling waters, may be discharged with approval from the appropriate regulatory
agency, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (D)   If user cannot discharge with approval from the approving authority to
a sanitary sewer, all costs for meter installation or piping modifications to
the sanitary sewer shall be borne by the user. The city will determine the
location of the approved discharge point to the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-2) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052 CONTROL OF HIGH STRENGTH, TOXIC WASTES DIRECTED TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Submission of basic data.
      (1)   Within three months after passage of this chapter, establishments
discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer shall prepare and file with
the city a report that shall include pertinent date relating to the quantity
and characteristics of the wastes discharged to the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   Similarly, each establishment desiring to make a new connection to
public sewer for the purpose of discharging industrial wastes shall prepare and
file with the city a report that shall include actual or predicted data
relating to the quantity and characteristics of the waste to be discharged.
   (B)   Extension of time. When it can be demonstrated that circumstances
exist which would create an unreasonable burden on the established to comply
with the time schedule imposed by this chapter, a request for extension of time
may be presented for consideration of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-3)
§ 52.053 HIGH STRENGTH FLOW OR TOXIC DISCHARGES SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The admission into the public sewers of any of the following waters or
wastes shall be subject to the review and approval of the city:
      (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 250 parts
per million by weight;
      (2)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in this chapter;
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city; or
      (4)   In violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40
C.F.R. 403, June 26, 1978 and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   The city may elect to:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewer;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §§
50.60 through
50.69.
   (C)   The toxic pollutants subject to prohibition or regulation under this
chapter shall include, but need not be limited to, the list of toxic pollutants
or combination of pollutants established by § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act of
1977, and subsequent amendments.
      (1)   Effluent standards or prohibitions for discharge to the sanitary
sewer shall also conform to the requirements of § 307(a) and associated
regulations.
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for those pollutants which are determined
not to be susceptible to treatment by the treatment works or which would
interfere with the operation of such works shall conform to the requirements
and associated regulations of § 307(b) of the Clean Water Act of 1988 and
subsequent amendments. The primary source for such regulations shall be 40
C.F.R. 403, General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of
Pollution.
   (D)   Where necessary in the opinion of the approving authority, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by weight, or reduce
objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits for
which this chapter provides, or control the quantities and rates of discharge
of such waters or wastes. If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the approving authority and the
Illinois EPA and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-4)
§ 52.054 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion
of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight, and equipped with
easily removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and
water-tight. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at the owner’s expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-5)
§ 52.055 MONITORING MANHOLES AND LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Where required by the city, the owner of a property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with approved plans. The plans detail the location and type of
manhole, meter, flume and other appurtenances deemed necessary by the city
shall be submitted for review to the city. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   The preferred location of the control manhole shall be outside of any
building structure so as to be more accessible. If locks are place on the
entrance to the manhole structure, the owner shall provide the city with a key.
      (1)   Where required by the city, other users who discharge or could
potentially discharge greater than normal domestic strength wastewater to the
public sewer shall provide a monitoring location, sampling equipment or other
appurtenances that are deemed necessary by the city to characterize the
quantity and strength of the wastewater discharged to the public sewers. The
required flow monitoring equipment and other appurtenances specified by the
city shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
      (2)   A maintenance schedule of flow monitoring and sampling equipment
must be accepted by the city. All maintenance and equipment repair shall be
performed within a reasonable time as determined by the city. Failure to
perform maintenance within a reasonable time shall be subject to the same
forfeiture and procedural provisions as applied to violations under the sewer
use ordinance. Prior to completion of satisfactory repairs, and for any
preceding period during which the city determines there existed a malfunction,
error or bias in the metering and sampling, the volume and strength of the
wastewater for that period of discharge shall be based on historical data and a
reasonable engineering estimate of flow and strength, taking into account
materials and known production variations and the like. All such factors shall
be determined by the city in consultation with the discharger. If prolonged
periods of breakdown are anticipated, approved interim measuring and sampling
needs shall be provided, and used to determine the volume and strength of
wastewater.
   (C)   Following approval and installation of permanent or temporary metering
or sampling equipment, such equipment shall not be removed without the consent
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-6)
§ 52.056 TESTS.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes, or other users who discharge or could potentially discharge
greater than normal domestic strength wastewater to the public sewer shall
provide, where required by the city, laboratory measurements, tests and
analysis of waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and
any special conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analysis to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city or regulatory agency, and shall
be such that the wastewater can be adequately characterized so that fair and
equitable user charges may be accessed to the owner and to assure that
compliance with the federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory service.
   (C)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the monitoring manhole or
sampling location as specified in this chapter or other approved location. In
the event that no special manhole has been required, the meter manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards of life, limb and
property. The particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab samples
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD suspended solids and
ammonia nitrogen analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-7)
§ 52.057 SEPTIC TANK AND HOLDING TANK WASTE DISPOSAL.
   No person in the business of gathering and disposing of septic tank sludge
or holding tank sewage shall transfer such material into any portion of the
city treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 18-9-8) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.070 USE.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.004, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-1)
§ 52.071 PERMIT.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city. The application
for such a permit shall contain the name and address of the person or persons
intended to have responsibility of the work and a written description of the
system, explanation of flows and loading to the private system and any plans,
specifications and other information necessary to explain the proposed system
and discharge location or other information as deemed necessary by the city. A
permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-2)
§ 52.072 INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city. The Sewer
Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
city when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the
receipt of written notice by the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-3)
§ 52.073 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act, being 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq. Code and with the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-4)
§ 52.074 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in § §
52.025, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run
sand, gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-5)
§ 52.075 OWNER SHALL BEAR EXPENSE.
   The owner shall operate, maintain and obtain any approvals, easements or
other requirements necessary to own and operate the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-6)
§ 52.076 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by any other governmental
regulatory body.
(Prior Code, § 18-10-7)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 52.090 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Any duly authorized employee of the city, the State Environmental
Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any duly authorized representative of the city shall have no authority
to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for
waste treatment.
   (C)   Inspectors shall make all inspections of plumbing which may be
necessary to ensure compliance with ordinances, and for this purpose,
inspectors may enter any premises where plumbing work is being done at any
reasonable hour. Building access may be refused to the inspector, but the city
is not obligated to issue permits where inspection access is denied. The
Inspector shall promptly notify owner of the results of all inspections.
(Prior Code, § 18-12-1)
§ 52.091 EASEMENT.
   (A)   Any duly authorized representative of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 18-12-2)
§ 52.092 INDEMNIFICATION.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §§
52.071 and
52.072, the city or duly authorized employees of the city, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
property owner or operator and the property owner or operator shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify
the property damage asserted against the property owner or operator and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operating, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the property owner or operator to maintain conditions
as required in §
52.030.
(Prior Code, § 18-12-3)
BASIS FOR SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 52.105 METERING OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the city if this volume cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records. Metering devices for determining the volume of waste
shall be installed, owned and maintained by the discharger. The city must
accept a maintenance schedule.
   (B)   Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed
without the consent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-15-1)
§ 52.106 WASTE SAMPLING.
   Wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be subject to periodic
inspection and a determination of character and concentration of said wastes.
The sampling may be accomplished either manually or by the use of mechanical
equipment acceptable to the city. The use of flow proportional composite
sampling is preferred.
(Prior Code, § 18-15-2)
§ 52.107 CHANGE CATEGORIES.
   The city may reassign sewer users into appropriate sewer service charge
categories if wastewater sampling program and other related information
indicate a change of categories is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 18-15-3)
§ 52.108 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No user shall receive free service or pay a sewer use charge less than the
user’s proportional share of operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 18-15-4)
BILLING PRACTICE
§ 52.120 BILLING PERIOD.
   Sewer service charges shall be billed on a monthly basis.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-1)
§ 52.121 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of the premises of the sewer services of the city shall be jointly
and severally liable for the payment of the sewer service on such premises, and
the sewer services is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises of the sewer services are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-2)
§ 52.122 DELINQUENT CHARGES; LIEN; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges and penalties shall constitute a lien upon the property
pursuant to provisions 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8, and any amendments thereto or
subsequent section of the state statutes, and shall be collected in the manner
therein provided.
   (B)   Whenever the charges levied in accordance with this chapter are not
paid within 30 days after rendition of the bill therefor, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter the city shall
have a continuing lien upon the premises and real estate upon or for which
sewer service is provided.
   (C)   Every lien shall upon compliance with the conditions hereinafter set
forth, become and be prior and superior to the rights of purchasers,
mortgagees, judgment creditors or any other lien holder in interest in the
premises and real estate.
   (D)   A penalty of the greater of $3 or 10% of the outstanding balance due
per month, or any portion thereof, shall be added to all charges for sewer
service not paid within 20 days after rendition of the bill thereof.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-3)
§ 52.123 AFFIDAVITS; RECORDING.
   Whenever a bill for sewer service charge remains unpaid 30 days after it has
been rendered, the City Clerk is authorized and directed to file with the
Recorder of Deeds of the county, and a statement of lien claim verified by the
affidavit of the City Clerk or other officer of the city having knowledge of
facts. The statement shall contain a sufficiently correct description of the
lot, lots or tracts of land to identify the same, the balance due after
allowing all credits, the date upon which such amount, as well as for all
charges for sewer service or other services in connection therewith supplied
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-4)
§ 52.124 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If payment shall not be made as provider in this chapter, any amount
due for sewer service, benefits or other charges provided for in this chapter
when the same becomes due, the city may file or cause to be filed a complaint
in the circuit court of the county for a foreclosure of such lien, or, upon
becoming a defendant in any pending suit affecting the premises or real estate,
an answer to the complaint in the nature of an intervening petition or real
estate, an answer to the complaint in the nature of an intervening petition or
cross complaint, then the city may proceed in its corporate name to foreclose
such lien in like manner and with like effect as provided by the statues of the
state in foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. Any decree rendered in the
court may be enforced and collected as other decrees or judgements in the same
court.
   (B)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the city, in the circuit court of the county, or in
any court having jurisdiction over such matters, against any property for which
a bill for sewer service charge has remained unpaid for 30 days after it has
been rendered.
   (C)   The remedy provided in this section for the collection of delinquent
sewer use charges or benefit shall not be construed to abridge or in any manner
interfere with the right and power of the city to enforce a collection thereof
by any other action or as otherwise provided in this chapter, but the remedy
herein provided shall be taken and held as an additional means to enforce
payment of such delinquent rates, charges or benefits.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-5)
§ 52.125 DISCONNECTION OF SEWER AND/OR WATER SERVICES.
   (A)   Whenever charges for sewer services or any additional charges provided
in this chapter are not paid within 30 days after rendition of the bill
therefor, the City Clerk, is authorized and directed to issue written
notification that such delinquency exists and that service shall be
discontinued without further notice is mailed or, in the event of personal
service, delivered. It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works
to secure copies of all delinquent user or users at the end of the fifth day if
the delinquent amounts are not paid. Disconnection shall be either by
disconnecting the sewer lateral at a convenient location near the point where
such service connects to the city’s sewer main or by disconnecting the water
supply to the premises; whichever is deemed by the Superintendent to be most
economical and expedient. All notifications required in this section shall be
in writing and shall be served on the person who applied for water service at
the location, then to the last known occupant of the premises or said
notification may be served on the person paying real estate taxes on the
property in question in the last preceding year in which real estate taxes were
paid.
   (B)   Such notices may be served in the following manner:
      (1)   By personal service;
      (2)   With respect to the applicant for water service or the occupant of
the premises, in the event water service is not supplied by the city, by
regular mail addressed to such applicant or occupant at the address last known
to the City Clerk; or
      (3)   With respect to the person paying real estate taxes in the last
preceding year, by regular mail at the address at which the bill for such taxes
was mailed.
   (C)   Sewer service, which has been disconnected for non-payment (either by
disconnecting the sewer lateral or disconnecting the water supply to the
premises), shall not be restored until:
      (1)   All delinquent charges for water service and/or wastewater service
are paid in full;
      (2)   The cost to the city of disconnecting the sewer service (in the
event of disconnecting the sewer lateral) or the appropriate reconnection fee
as set forth in this city code (in the event disconnection is by disconnecting
the water supply of the premises) is reimbursed to the city;
      (3)   A sewer connection permit is duly issued by the city to a duly
licensed contractor of the city in the manner prescribed in this chapter; and
      (4)   Payment in the amount of $20 per month for each month that service
is disconnected is made, in full, to the city. In the event disconnection is
effectuated by disconnecting the sewer lateral, service shall be restored by
the owner, occupant or other interested person at the sole cost and expense of
such person.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-6) (Ord. 2018-10, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 52.126 MONTHLY SEWER CHARGES.
   See §§
50.60 through
50.69.
(Prior Code, § 18-16-7)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of chapter. Any person found to be violating any provision
of this chapter, except §§
52.050 through
52.057 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall be in violation of §
52.005 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined as set forth in §
10.99.
      (2)   These charges shall be over and above any charges for violations by
other regulatory bodies such as the Illinois EPA or other charges noted in this
chapter, whether wilful or accidental.
   (C)   Violations. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city for any expenses, loss or damage incurred by
the city in remedying the violation.
   (D)   Action. In addition to any other penalty or action provided or
authorized hereby, the city may institute any appropriate action or proceeding
to prevent any violation hereof, to restrain, correct or abate such violation.
(Prior Code, § 18-13)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES FOR DRIVING
      
72.   PEDESTRIANS
      
73.   PARKING RULES
      
74.   CONDITION OF VEHICLES
      
75.   SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERBLADES
      
76.   GOLF CARTS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Traffic Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Signs and signals
   
70.05   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.06   Flashing signals
   
70.07   Unauthorized signs
   
70.08   Animals or bicycles
   
70.09   Exemptions
Through Streets and One-Way Streets
   
70.20   Through streets
   
70.21   Stop streets
   
70.22   Posting signs
Drivers
   
70.35   Liquor or drugs
   
70.36   Accidents
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in
diameter.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory within the city contiguous to and including
a street or highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are
buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including buildings which
occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on
both sides of the street or highway.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county or municipal officer employee in
response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gasses that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects of contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by tabliabue or equivalent test device.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt macadam or gravel.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the property
lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets cross.
   LANED ROADWAY. A street, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction
thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his
or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any
other vehicle.
   METAL TIRES. Every tire the surface or which is in contact with the roadway
is wholly or partially of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
grater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the municipality, the county, any park
district, school district, the state or the United States government.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   SAFETY ZONE. The portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle designed and used for carrying more than
seven persons operated by or for a public or governmental agency or by or for a
private or religious organization solely for the transportation of pupils in
connection with school activities.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of each side or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic and each way
set aside for public travel by vehicles.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for the purpose
of travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motor power designed for carrying passengers
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no
part of its weight rest upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
its weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter mile or
more.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moving by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   YIELD-RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, providing that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-1)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, and special police assigned to traffic
duty, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience
may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer. Except
in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person, except as authorized
by law, to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers of authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene, in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-3)
§ 70.04 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal place in view by authority of the
City Council or in accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the State Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights
shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow or “Caution” when shown with or following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting across
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown above.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall not
interfere with other traffic or endanger pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Yellow when shown with the red signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal shall not enter the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection nor proceed beyond such other points as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line while this signal is displayed, but is
advised that another signal indication which will permit a traffic movement is
about to be displayed.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Other.
      (1)   In the event an official traffic control signal or flashing red
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by
their nature can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be at a sign or marking on the pavement
indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or
marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-5)
§ 70.06 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminating
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-6)
§ 70.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway
any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic
or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal,
and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising. It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or
interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. Any such unauthorized
device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be removed by any police
officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or
interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-8)
§ 70.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver upon approaching a red or stop
signal or any stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety but may proceed
cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other times drivers of
authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   (B)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement and parking of
vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in
installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS
§ 70.20 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by ordinance as
through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
(Prior Code, § 20-2-1)
§ 70.21 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of the vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto, and
shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 20-2-3)
§ 70.22 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police or any other person designated by the Mayor or Council
shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all such through streets,
one-way streets or alleys, and stop intersections.
(Prior Code, § 20-2-4)
DRIVERS
§ 70.35 LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicles on any street.
(Prior Code, § 20-7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.36 ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage
shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and to
give his or her true name and residence to the injured person or any other
persons requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of
the property damaged, and to a police officer if one is present. A report of
each such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it
to the Chief of Police within 24 hours after the accident.
(Prior Code, § 20-7-2)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this chapter and Chapters
71,
72 and
73 shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $250 for each offense,
where another fine is not specifically provided, and each day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-8-1)
   (B)   Arrests. Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by
statute. The police officer in command at the station may, in the absence of a
police magistrate or justice, prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each
instance. Provided that any arrested person may at his or her own request have
the amount of such bond set by a magistrate or justice of the peace as provided
by statute.
(Prior Code, § 20-8-2)
   (C)   Tickets. For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless
driving, police officers, after making note of the license number of the
vehicle (and name of the offender where possible) may issue a traffic violation
ticket notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for
hearing such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a
warrant if the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
(Prior Code, § 20-8-3)
   (D)   Prima facie proof. The fact that an automobile which is illegally
parked is registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie
proof that such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such
parking.
(Prior Code, § 20-8-4)
   (E)   Parking violations.
      (1)   Any person accused of a violation of any of the parking rules set
forth in §§
73.01 through
73.06 may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal
parking by paying to the municipality the sum of $50 within 48 hours following
such alleged offense. Such payment may be made at the City Hall, and a receipt
shall be issued for all money so received, and such money shall be promptly
turned over to the Treasurer to be used in the manner provided for the
disposition of fines of traffic violations.
      (2)   The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to
refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved.
      (3)   Provided that this section shall not apply to person parking a
vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or
Fire Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so
as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital, nor shall this section apply
to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic
in any street or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an
arterial street to one-way traffic only, nor to any person who refuses to move
a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 20-8-5)
CHAPTER 71: RULES FOR DRIVING
Section
   
71.01   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.02   Turning on a crest hill
   
71.03   Starting a parked vehicle
   
71.04   Driver’s signal
   
71.05   Driving from alleys, driveways or garages
   
71.06   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks or in safety zones
   
71.07   Right-of-way
   
71.08   Vehicle turning left
   
71.09   Limitations on turning around
   
71.10   U-turns
   
71.11   No left turn
   
71.12   Fire Department vehicle; fires
   
71.13   Driving on the right side of roadway
   
71.14   Passing vehicles
   
71.15   Overtaking vehicles
   
71.16   Overtaking vehicles on the right
   
71.17   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.18   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.19   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.20   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.21   Reckless or careless driving
   
71.22   Speed restriction
   
71.23   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
71.24   Bicycles and motorcycles
   
71.25   Unattended vehicles
   
71.26   Unattended animals
   
71.27   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.28   Toy vehicles
   
71.29   Riding on the running boards
   
71.30   Train signals
   
71.31   Driving through a funeral or other procession
   
71.32   Drivers in a procession
   
71.33   Funeral processions to be identified
   
71.34   Backing
   
71.35   Restricted access
   
71.36   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.37   Limited load streets
   
71.38   School buses
   
71.39   School crossing signals
   
71.40   Mechanical exhaust brakes
   
71.41   Stop streets
§ 71.01 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in the
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection, as nearly as practicable in the
left lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the
roadway being entered.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle about the enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 TURNING ON A CREST HILL.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 STARTING A PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 DRIVER’S SIGNAL.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise other who might be affected by his or her action.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety, and then
only after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any
pedestrian may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be
affected by such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given during
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such devices then said signals must be given by such a
lamp or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows.
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally.
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward.
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage, shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in
driving upon said sidewalk or across such line.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS OR IN SAFETY ZONES.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, not at anytime into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching
an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two vehicles entering an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in
safety and without backing into traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 U-TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to turn left at
any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 NO LEFT TURN.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at any
place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE; FIRES.
   Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall
comply with the provisions of §
71.20 relating to the approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm,
closer than one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped to answer the fire alarm. It shall be further unlawful
for the driver of the vehicle to drive over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department without the consent of the Fire Marshal or assistant in command.
   (B)   All motorized firefighting equipment operating by gasoline motor power
is hereby given and shall have at all times the right-of way preference to any
and all other vehicles, whether horse drawn or motor vehicles, while driving or
being driven on any street or crossing any street within the corporate limits
of the city.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of all drivers or operators of vehicles to
observe the traffic regulation and right-of-way preference for firefighting
equipment, provided by division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver whose right is the wider
shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 PASSING VEHICLES.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.15 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaken vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four or more lines of moving traffic when such movement
may be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon the
shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right on a one-way street, or on any street on which traffic is restricted to
one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstructions and
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Overtaking on the right, see
Ch. 77, Sch. II
§ 71.17 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
   (B)   (1)   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, or
at any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the driver’s view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; or
         (c)   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive center line is marked, which distinctive center
line also so directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted by the
State Department of Public Works and Buildings.
   (2)   The limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(2)(b) above shall not
apply on a one-way street or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two or more lines of moving traffic in each direction when
such movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.18 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
on the right of such island.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   One-way streets or alleys, see
Ch. 77, Sch. I
§ 71.19 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into three or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic the following rules in addition to all other consistent
therewith shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicles shall not
be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic
within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
centerline is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction that the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.20 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
the driver is giving audible sign by siren or bell, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the
highway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position
until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.21 RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a reckless or
wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or property.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 SPEED RESTRICTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works and Buildings, the
state, or the county, in an Urban District within the city at a speed in excess
of 30 mph, or in an alley at a speed in excess of 15 mph; provided, that if the
City Council, by ordinance, sets other limits as provided by statute after an
engineering or traffic survey, then such limits shall govern the rate of speed
on the streets indicated in such ordinance. The Superintendent of Streets shall
post appropriate signs showing such speed limits.
   (B)   Provided further, that the speed of all vehicles of the second
division, as defined by statute, having two or more solid tires shall not
exceed ten mph. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon
any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and
speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway
within the city under the jurisdiction of the State Department or Public Works
and Buildings, or of the county, at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for
such street.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.23 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicles shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.24 BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than on person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon a
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operation.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.25 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such
officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the
nearest garage or other place of safety.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-25) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his
or her vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-27) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-28) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.29 RIDING ON THE RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board
or outside step of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-29) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.30 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad crossing when a signal
device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop within 50
feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest track of such railroad and
shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade
crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagger or automatic signal
warns of the approach of a train. The driver of any motor vehicle carrying
passengers for hire, or any school bus carrying any school children or any
vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquid as cargo shall stop such
vehicle within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest rail of the
tracks and shall listen and look in both directions along such track from which
a train might come, before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing;
provided, that no such stop need be made at any such crossing where a police
officer or a traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.31 DRIVING THROUGH A FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.32 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.33 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia and by having the lights of each vehicle lighted.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-33) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.34 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-34) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.35 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on to or from any controlled or limited
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits are as established
by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.36 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only on any street so designated by ordinance
and properly sign posted.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.37 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by
ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purposed of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such
vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.38 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle on a street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils; provided that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of which
the roadway for traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip
of ground which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicle traffic need not stop
his or her vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the
opposite roadway.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.39 SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   (A)   School crossing signals shall be erected at the following locations:
if such locations are under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Public
Works and Buildings, the erection of such signals shall be subject to the
approval of said Department: on Illinois State Highway Route #17 at
intersection of Fifth and High Streets in the city.
   (B)   SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNAL means a permanently mounted electrically
operated signal device equipped with two-way, two color (red and yellow) signal
heads, together with a diamond-shaped, single-faced sign reading “School
Crossing”, by which at predetermined times and when actuated by push-button,
traffic is directed to stop so as to permit school children to cross the street
or highway safely.
   (C)   Whenever the red lens of a school crossing signal is illuminated by
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and pedestrians within or entering
the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right-of-way over
vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to
pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection may
proceed, but shall also yield the right-of-way to pedestrians within any other
crosswalk at the intersection. If in the event a school crossing signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section also shall be applicable, except as to provisions which by their
nature can have to application.
   (D)   The school crossing stop signal shall be automatically timed so as to
permit operation only during regularly scheduled school crossing periods, and
that the signals are not to be operated during special events which occur
outside of normal school hours, and that the signals shall be switched off
manually at the beginning of all vacation or holiday periods other than normal
weekends during the school term, and shall not be switched on until the end of
the vacation or holiday period.
(Prior Code, § 20-3-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.40 MECHANICAL EXHAUST BRAKES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, or cause to be used or operated, within the
jurisdiction of the city any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed
air.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense that the person operating, or
causing to be used or operated, such mechanical exhaust device in circumstances
where it was necessary to avoid an injury or accident.
   (C)   The city shall provide notice of the prohibition created by this
chapter by posting clearly visible signs on all truck routes at or near the
entrances to the city, utilizing signs in accordance with regulations provided.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2003 20-3-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.41 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto, and
shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be
compiled with.
(Prior Code, § 20-2-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
72.01   Right-of-way
   
72.02   Pedestrians crossing roadways
   
72.03   Signals
   
72.04   Standing on sidewalk
   
72.05   Pedestrian crossing
   
72.06   Pedestrian walking along roadways
   
72.07   Blind pedestrian; right-of-way
§ 72.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersection, the pedestrian shall
have the right-of-way over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for
the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAYS.
   (A)   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing and when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk, he or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone, if such act interferes with the lawful movement or traffic.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 STANDING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk, except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business section.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall step
off to the left.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 BLIND PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a
cane or walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who
is being guided by a dog, shall have the right-of-way in crossing any street or
highway, whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by
traffic signals, anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding.
   (B)   The driver of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person
so carrying such a cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a
street or highway, shall bring his or her vehicle to a full stop and before
proceeding shall take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to
the blind person. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind
person who is not carrying such cane or walking stick or to be guided by a
guide dog when walking on streets, highways or sidewalks shall not be
considered evidence of contributory negligence.
(Prior Code, § 20-4-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING RULES
Section
   
73.01   No parking places
   
73.02   Parking at curb
   
73.03   Vehicles for sale
   
73.04   Alleys
   
73.05   Time limit parking
   
73.06   Signs
   
73.07   Abandoned vehicles
   
73.08   Abandoned vehicles declared to be a nuisance; vehicle removal
   
73.09   Snow removal
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 NO PARKING PLACES.
   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the approaching
side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   Within five feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly sign posted;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway; or
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Truck traffic, see
Ch. 77, Sch. III
§ 73.02 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels or the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks; that
parking, where permitted, on Fifth Street extending from Water Street to a
point 530 feet east of Ida Street, be parallel to the curb.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for sale upon any street for the
purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business
street from which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in any area designated as a limited parking area and so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the Mayor or Council
shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All vehicles including but not all inclusive of trailers,
boat trailers, motor homes, and campers parked on a public way, street or alley
in the city, not being properly licensed and or registered with the Secretary
of State and/or Department of Conservation (boats on a trailer); or in the
state of disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven; or has not
been moved or used for 14 consecutive days. (See § 91.01 for definition of
INOPERABLE VEHICLE on private property.)
(Prior Code, § 20-5-7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE; VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   All abandoned vehicles on public property and in view of the general
public, shall constitute a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to keep or
maintain such vehicle after a period of seven days from receiving a notice from
the city to remove the same.
   (B)   The Police Department is authorized to remove any such abandoned
vehicles at any time after seven days from the issuance of the notice
hereinbefore described. Charges incurred during the removal of the vehicle
shall be assessed to the owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-8) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   From 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., all motor vehicles shall be removed from
the designated snow routes within two hours after a snowfall of two inches or
more has occurred. Said motor vehicles shall remain removed and not be parked
on any designated snow route until the snow has discontinued and the roads have
been plowed.
   (B)   All snow routes shall be designated as snow routes by the posting of
signs at reasonable intervals.
      (1)   At any time there is a snowfall of two inches or more in the city,
for a period of time of 12 hours subsequent to the discontinuing of the
snowfall, on all streets not designated as snow routes, all motor vehicles
shall be removed from the north and west sides of said non-designated streets
for a period being 12 hours subsequent to the time that the snow stops falling.
After said streets have been cleaned on the north and west sides, said motor
vehicles shall be removed from the south and east sides of the non-designated
routes. All motor vehicles parked on non-designated snow routes in violation of
the provisions of this section shall first be tagged upon their front window
with a notice of said violation. Said motor vehicles may be towed away three
hours subsequent to the tagging. All costs of towing and storage shall be
chargeable to the owner of the motor vehicle; however, if a motor vehicle is
tagged after 10:00 p.m., such motor vehicle may not be towed away until 9:00
a.m. the following morning.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, his or her employees or
agents, to remove snow from any public or private parking lots, driveways,
streets or alleys and deposit the same in and onto the public streets and
alleys.
      (3)   The City Council shall, by appendix, designate snow routes within
the city. Such appendixes designating said snow routes shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, and the same shall be kept on
file for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk. All streets not
designated as snow routes shall be known as non-designated routes.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-9) Penalty, see §
73.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow routes, see
Ch. 78, Sch. I
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The remedy set forth in §
73.08(B) shall not be mutually exclusive and any person, corporation or
business entity violating §
73.08(B) may, in addition to having the motor vehicle removed, also be fined
pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-8)
CHAPTER 74: CONDITION OF VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Clear vision
   
74.02   Signal lamps
   
74.03   Unnecessary noise
   
74.04   Horn
   
74.05   Gas and smoke
   
74.06   Projecting loads; widths and height
   
74.07   Brakes
   
74.08   Muffler
   
74.09   Lights
   
74.10   Volunteer firefighter
   
74.11   Non-skid devices
   
74.12   Tires
   
74.13   Weight
   
74.14   Spilling loads
   
74.15   Bicycles
§ 74.01 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any view of the roadway
to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to
give him or her a view of the roadway behind him or her.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 SIGNAL LAMPS.
   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with and required
signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device
when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches,
or when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the
rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement
shall apply to any single vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 HORN.
   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient audible
signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device shall be
sounded when necessary to give timely warning or the approach of a vehicle, but
such horn or other signaling shall not be sounded for any purpose other than as
a warning of impending danger. No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle
shall be equipped with a siren or gong signaling device.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of person or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PROJECTING LOADS; WIDTHS AND HEIGHT.
   The maximum width and height of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed
the limits expressed in the state traffic law.
   (A)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side
thereof.
   (B)   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of 42 feet
extreme over all dimensions.
   (C)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two units, and no such combination of vehicles unladen or with load, shall
exceed a total length of 50 feet; but such length limitations shall not apply
to vehicles operated in daytime when transporting pipes, poles, machinery and
other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles
operated at night time by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work; but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
   (D)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cutout is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law;
provided, that vehicles may be parked at night time without lights on any
street or portion thereof, designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles
may so park at night time.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER.
   Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer firefighter may
be equipped with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. A flashing
blue light may be used only when such firefighter is responding to a fire call.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 NON-SKID DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any motor vehicle equipped
with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid or non-flexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.14 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on
any street or alley in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.15 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at night time shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle that is not equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any persons
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a good and adequate brake.
(Prior Code, § 20-6-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERBLADES
Section
Skateboards
   
75.01   Definition
   
75.02   Skateboarding prohibited
   
75.03   Protective clothing required
   
75.04   Hours for skateboarding
Rollerblades
   
75.15   Definition
   
75.16   Rollerblading prohibited
   
75.17   Protective clothing required
 
   
75.99   Penalty
SKATEBOARDS
§ 75.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area within the city bordered from the 100 block of
North Center Street south to the 100 block of South Center Street on the east;
Fourth Street on the south to the Illinois River; Illinois River on the west;
and bordered on the north by Main Street south to Seventh Street; Seventh
Street east to Prairie Street; south on Prairie Street to Sixth Street; and
Sixth Street east to the 100 block of North Center Street.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
§ 75.02 SKATEBOARDING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Skateboarding shall be prohibited on all streets, alleys and roadways
designated for vehicle use within the city limits of the city. Skateboarding is
also prohibited within the business district as set forth in §
75.01 on all streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks.
   (B)   Skateboarding is allowed only on sidewalks outside the business
district as defined in §
75.01.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 PROTECTIVE CLOTHING REQUIRED.
   All persons riding skateboards must wear protective clothing on arms and
legs.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 HOURS FOR SKATEBOARDING.
   Skateboarding shall be permitted only between sunrise and sunset.
Skateboarding after sunset shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4) Penalty, see §
75.99
ROLLERBLADES
§ 75.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area within the city bordered from the 100 block of
North Center Street south to the 100 block of South Center Street on the east;
Fourth Street on the south to the Illinois River; Illinois River on the west;
and bordered on the north by Main street South to Seventh Street; Seventh
Street east to Prairie Street; south on Prairie Street to Sixth Street; and
Sixth Street East to the 100 block of North Center Street.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1)
§ 75.16 ROLLERBLADING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Rollerblading shall be prohibited on all streets, alleys and roadways
designated for vehicle use within the city limits of the city. Rollerblading is
also prohibited within the business district as set forth in §
75.15 on all streets, alleys, roadways and sidewalks.
   (B)   Rollerblading is allowed only on sidewalks outside the business
district as defined in §
75.15.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)
§ 75.17 PROTECTIVE CLOTHING REQUIRED.
   All persons riding rollerblades must wear protective clothing on arms and
legs.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
75.01 through
75.04 shall be subject to the following fines and penalties:
      (1)   First offense: a written warning shall be issued to the violator;
      (2)   Second offense: a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $25
shall be imposed for those persons violating §§
75.01 through
75.04 for a second time; and
      (3)   Third offense: third time and all subsequent offenses shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
75.15 through
75.17 shall be subject to the following fines and penalties:
      (1)   First offense: a written warning shall be issued to the violator;
      (2)   Second offense: a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $25
shall be imposed for those persons violating §§
75.15 through
75.17 for a second time; and
      (3)   Third offense: third time and all subsequent offenses shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-5)
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Conditions
   
76.02   Definitions
   
76.03   Compliance
   
76.04   Permits
   
76.05   Miscellaneous
 
   
76.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Forms
§ 76.01 CONDITIONS.
   Golf carts, as defined and qualified herein, shall be allowed on city
streets under the conditions as stated herein.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 76.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the city.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE. A vehicle specifically having a steering wheel and not
capable of exceeding 25 mph.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-13-2009; Ord. 2010-4, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 76.03 COMPLIANCE.
   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart on the city streets must ensure
compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Must show proof of current liability insurance;
   (B)   Must obtain city permit as specified in §
76.04;
   (C)   Must display city decal on the rear of the vehicle;
   (D)   Must have a current, valid Illinois driver’s license and be over age
18;
   (E)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (2)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (3)   Tires;
      (4)   Rearview mirror;
      (5)   Approved “slow moving vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
      (6)   Red reflector warning device in the front and a red reflector
warning device in the rear;
      (7)   Headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front, which must illuminate when in operation;
      (8)   Tail lamps that emit a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
      (9)   Turn signals; and
      (10)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to 625 ILCS 5/11-
1426.1 et seq., or any other provision of the State Vehicle Code.
   (F)   Must obey all traffic laws of the state and the city;
   (G)   Must be operated only on city streets, except where prohibited;
   (H)   Must not operate on State Highway 17 (Fifth Street) or State Highway
26 (Prairie Street). Crossing will be prohibited from State Highway 26 (Prairie
Street) west on State Highway 17 (Fifth Street) with the exception of the alley
between Main Street and Marina Drive running north and south from Fourth Street
to Seventh Street;
   (I)   Vehicle must not be capable of exceeding 25 mph and must observe
posted speed limits;
   (J)   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of a golf cart
as described herein on a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625
ILCS 5/11-500 through 5/11-502; and
   (K)   Golf carts may not be operated on streets and highways and roads under
the jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation (State Highway 17
(Fifth Street) and State Highway 26 (Prairie Street)).
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-13-2009; Ord. 2010-4, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 2012-8,
passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart without first obtaining
a permit from the Chief of Police as provided herein.
      (1)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year.
      (2)   The permit is due by May 1 of each year. The cost of the permit is
$25. There shall be no proration of the permit fee for a partial-year permit.
Renewal permits done after May 1 will cost $35. Proof of liability insurance
coverage is to be provided to the Police Department when obtaining and renewing
a permit.
      (3)   Vehicle must be inspected and approved by the Chief of Police or
designated person.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier and policy number;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city and its
employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and
all future claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart on the city
streets. A copy is attached in Appendix A;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   Photocopy of valid drivers license; and
      (7)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the Chief of Police or designated
person to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is in
compliance with this chapter and with the State Motor Vehicle Code;
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart on city streets; and
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or
there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart on
the designated roadways.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-13-2009; Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this chapter to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable. The invalidity of any part of this chapter shall not affect any
other part or parts thereof.
   (B)   Any ordinance, or portion thereof, of the city which is contrary to
this chapter shall be deemed to be repealed.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty offense and shall be punished by a fine of $75. Any second or subsequent
offense shall result in the revocation of the permit for a period of not less
than one, nor more than three years. To the extent that any violation of this
chapter also constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the state, then
the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-13-2009)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
                        PERMIT NO.: _____________________
            APPLICATION FOR GOLF CART PERMIT
                  CITY OF LACON
Applicant’s Name:
____________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Address:
__________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Telephone No. Daytime ( )___________      Night time
( )____________
Applicant’s Driver License No.:_____________________   State: _____________
Applicant’s Insurance Information:
________________________________________________________
Make of golf cart (Mfg):
_______________________________________________________________
Color of golf cart: ____________________            Model (Year): _________
Serial Number of golf cart:
_____________________________________________________________
I have received, read and understand the “Golf Cart Ordinance.” I have paid the
permit fee for the above golf cart. I also understand that the City of Lacon
Police Department’s and/or City of Lacon interpretation of all the rules and
regulations are final. I will insure that any assigned proof of compliance will
remain attached to the golf cart at all times. I furthermore insure that I will
obey all the rules and regulations set forth by the City of Lacon concerning
the operation of a golf cart within the City limits.
_______________________________________            ___________________________
Applicant’s Signature                           Date
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------
FOR CITY USE ONLY
Approved by: ______________________________________________
Date: _______
 
UNCONDITIONAL AND FULL GENERAL RELEASE OF LIABILITY, WAIVER,
DISCHARGE AND COVENANT NOT TO SUE
This is a legally binding UNCONDITIONAL AND FULL GENERAL RELEASE OF LIABILITY,
WAIVER, DISCHARGE AND COVENANT NOT TO SUE made by me, _______________________
________________ (hereinafter referred to as Operator) to the City of Lacon
(hereinafter referred to as City).
I FULLY RECOGNIZE THAT THERE ARE DANGERS AND RISKS TO WHICH I MAY BE EXPOSED BY
OPERATING A GOLF CART ON CITY STREETS. THE FOLLOWING IS A DESCRIPTION AND/OR
EXAMPLES OF SIGNIFICANT DANGERS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THIS ACTIVITY: INJURY
TO MYSELF OR OTHERS, DAMAGE TO MY PROPERTY OR THAT OF OTHERS, DEATH OF MYSELF
OR OTHERS.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CITY BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; WHETHER ARISING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR ANY OTHER LEGAL
THEORY, IN CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF OPERATOR’S USE OF A GOLF CART ON
CITY STREETS.
THE OPERATOR, AS OF THE DATE BELOW, SHALL HEREINAFTER SAVE, HOLD HARMLESS AND
INDEMNIFY THE CITY AGAINST ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, CLAIMS, CAUSES OF ACTION, AND
COSTS OF WHATSOEVER KIND AND NATURE INCLUDING, WITHOUT BEING LIMITED TO INJURY,
DAMAGE, LOSS INCLUDING DEATH, RESULTING FROM, ARISING OUT OF, OR OCCURRING IN
CONNECTION WITH MY USE OF THIS GOLF CART ON CITY STREETS.
I understand that the City has an Ordinance governing the use of qualified golf
carts on City streets and hereby agree to conform with all requirements of the
City Ordinance at all times. I have had the opportunity to read said Ordinance
and my signature below acknowledges that I will comply with this Ordinance as
well as all of the applicable traffic laws of the State of Illinois at all
times when operating this golf cart on City Streets.
I, THEREFORE, AGREE TO ASSUME AND TAKE ON MYSELF ALL OF THE RISKS AND
RESPONSIBILITIES IN ANYWAY ASSOCIATED WITH THIS ACTIVITY. IN CONSIDERATION OF
AND RETURN FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO OPERATE A GOLF CART ON CITY STREETS, I
RELEASE THE CITY (AND THE CITY COUNCIL, EMPLOYEES, AND AGENTS) FROM ANY AND ALL
LIABILITY, CLAIMS AND ACTIONS THAT MAY ARISE FROM INJURY OR HARM TO ME OR
OTHERS, INCLUDING DEATH, OR FROM DAMAGE TO MY PROPERTY OR PROPERTY OF ANY OTHER
IN CONNECTION WITH THIS ACTIVITY. I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS RELEASE ALSO COVERS
LIABILITY, CLAIMS AND ACTIONS CAUSED ENTIRELY OR IN PART BY ANY ACTS OR
FAILURES TO ACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO NEGLIGENCE, MISTAKE OR FAILURE TO
ENFORCE, SUPERVISE, OR MAINTAIN.
I assure the City that there are no health-related reasons or problems which
preclude or restrict my participation in this activity. I further assure the
City that I have adequate health and liability insurance necessary to provide
for and pay any medical costs or property damage that may directly or
indirectly result form my participation in this activity, and I will indemnify
and hold the City harmless for any such medical costs or property damage.
I understand that this Release means I am giving up, among other things, rights
to sue the City, its City Council, employees, and/or agents for injuries
(including death), damages, or losses I may incur or cause. I also understand
that this Release binds my heirs, executors, administrators, and assignee, as
well as myself.
I HAVE READ THIS ENTIRE RELEASE, I FULLY UNDERSTAND IT, AND I AGREE TO BE
LEGALLY BOUND BY IT.
WITNESS: ________________________________
________________________________________            _______________
Applicant’s Signature                              Date
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets or alleys
      
II.   Overtaking on the right
      
III.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley
designated as a one-way street or alley by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so desired.
   (B)   The north-south public alleys bisecting Block 38, between their
respective intersections with Fifth and Sixth Streets shall in the future be
designated for one-way traffic only in a northerly direction.
(Prior Code, § 20-2-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   Overtaking on the right on State Route 17 (Fifth Street) within the
corporate limits of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The State Department of Transportation is hereby requested to post
signs on said route prohibiting overtaking on the right as set forth above.
   (C)   A violation of this restriction shall result in a fine as set forth in
§
10.99.
   (D)   This schedule shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption, passage approval and publication as provided by law, as well as after
posting of those signs specified herein above.
(Ord. 2002-7, passed 9-9-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Overtaking vehicles on the right, see §
71.16
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Semi-tractor trailers and/or trailers for such vehicles are prohibited
from over night parking on the area commonly known as the Lacon Marina.
   (B)   Signs enforcing such prohibition shall be placed at the following
locations: within limits of Lacon Marina parking areas.
   (C)   A violation of this restriction shall result in a fine as set forth in
§
10.99, which fine shall be posted on the signs in accordance with state law.
(Ord. passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   No parking places, see §
73.01
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. SNOW ROUTES.
   Snow routes are designated as:
   (A)   Fourth Street from Water Street to Prairie Street;
   (B)   Fifth Street from Water Street to Ida Street;
   (C)   Sixth Street from Water Street to Center Street;
   (D)   Main Street from Fourth Street to Sixth Street;
   (E)   Washington Street from Fourth Street to Seventh Street;
   (F)   Broad Street from Fourth Street to Sixth Street; and
   (G)   Prairie Street from Washington Street to Railroad Street.
(Prior Code, § 20-5-9) (Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Snow removal, see §
73.09
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
94.   SIGNS AND AWNINGS
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Livestock and poultry; running at large
   
90.04   Dogs; running at large
   
90.05   Disturbing the peace unlawful
   
90.06   Dogs and cats; number allowed
   
90.07   Kennels for dogs and cats
   
90.08   Farm animals prohibited within the city
   
90.09   Domestic rabbits restricted
   
90.10   Animals posing health hazards; authority to prohibit
   
90.11   Special permits for certain circus or exhibition animals
   
90.12   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.13   Pens, yards and runs
   
90.14   Food and shelter for animals
   
90.15   Birds; buildings and coops
   
90.16   Birds; killing or injuring prohibited
   
90.17   Pigeons
   
90.18   Diseased animals
   
90.19   Animal bites; rabies control
   
90.20   Keeping of wild, dangerous or vicious animals
   
90.21   Killing dangerous or vicious animals
   
90.22   Beekeeping restrictions
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   It is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the city that animals and fowl be controlled.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than a human being.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of its owner’s real property and not restrained
by a competent person. Dogs which are on any street, alley or sidewalk or any
other public place or upon any private property not owned by the owner of said
dog, without being restrained by a competent person shall be deemed to be
running AT LARGE.
   CAT. All domesticated members of the genus Felis, male or female, four
months of age or older.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A human being that is capable of controlling and governing
the animal or dog in question, and to whose commands the animal or dog is
obedient.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog, when either unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner or custodian, that behaves in a manner that a
reasonable person would believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat
of serious physical injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or a dog
that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause serious physical
injury.
   DOG. All members of the canine family.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain securely fastened to an animal by a
collar or harness, and of sufficient strength to keep such animal under
control.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog, cat or other animal,
or who keeps or harbors a dog, cat or other animal, or who has in his or her
care, or acts as custodian of, or knowingly permits a dog, cat or other animal
to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death; or any individual dog that has been found to
be a “dangerous dog” upon three separate occasions.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 90.03 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person having custody or ownership of any cattle,
horses, swine, sheep, goats, asses, mules or poultry to permit any such animal
to run at large in the city.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 DOGS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Dogs at large. It is unlawful for any person owning or possessing any
dog to permit the same to run at large at any time.
   (B)   Impoundment. Whenever any police officer or other person designated by
the Chief of Police shall find any dog running at large as defined in this
chapter, he or she shall contact Animal Control for impoundment.
   (C)   Length of impoundment. Animals which are impounded in the municipal or
county pound shall be kept in the enclosure established as the municipal or
county pound until redeemed or otherwise disposed of as may be directed from
time to time by the City Council. Animals held in the municipal or county pound
shall be held at least three days for redemption.
   (D)   Conditions of redemption. In case the owner of an impounded dog
desires to make redemption thereof, he or she may do so on the following
conditions:
      (1)   Present proof of rabies inoculation and registration, if
applicable; or
      (2)   Pay for the rabies inoculation of the dog and registration, if
applicable; and
      (3)   Pay a fine as provided in §
10.99; and
      (4)   Pay the additional fees for the boarding of the dog for the period
of time it was impounded.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animal or fowl which disturbs the peace
and quiet by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 DOGS AND CATS; NUMBER ALLOWED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, maintain or harbor any dog or cat within
the city without first complying with the applicable licensing requirements of
the county.
   (B)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs or cats in the city for a
considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs or cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to keep, own or house more
than three dogs or three cats within the city unless the premises is a licensed
kennel, with the exception that a litter of pups or a litter of kittens, or a
portion of a litter may be kept for a period of time not to exceed five months
from birth.
   (D)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to any licensed
establishment or kennel wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale,
sporting purposes or boarding.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 KENNELS FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   The term KENNEL as used in this chapter means any establishment
engaged in the commercial business of breeding, showing, buying, selling or
boarding of dogs and cats. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel
shall be located closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent
residential lot.
   (B)   Kennels shall be allowed only in districts permitted under the city
zoning ordinance, as amended.
      (1)   License requirements. The keeper of a kennel shall obtain a license
from the City Clerk before commencing operations, and pay an annual license fee
of $100.
      (2)   Sanitation. Every facility used as a kennel shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition, and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed
to remain thereon for more than 24 hours. All animals shall be humanely
treated; and any animal having any disease shall be properly isolated and
treated.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED WITHIN THE CITY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all farm animals, including,
but not limited to, members of the swine, ovine, bovine, caprine, equine
families, poultry and rabbits shall be prohibited. Members of the equine
families may be used as a means of transportation throughout the city so long
as they are not permanently kept and harbored within the city limits. This
section shall not apply to livestock brought into the city for the purpose of
being immediately shipped out of the city.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 DOMESTIC RABBITS RESTRICTED.
   Possession of domestic rabbits within the city is a violation of this
chapter, except under the following conditions.
   (A)   The owner shall provide a cage of at least eight cubic feet, with no
dimension less than one foot for each animal.
   (B)   Each cage or structure shall be placed at least ten feet from all
property lines.
   (C)   The total number of rabbits shall be no more than three or more than
one animal for every 3,000 square feet of lot area, whichever is less.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, any rabbit over six weeks old shall
be counted.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 ANIMALS POSING HEALTH HAZARDS; AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting
the keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which is deemed to pose a health hazard
to the general public.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor by proclamation shall declare that danger from
rabies is great, it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to go upon any public
street, alley or sidewalk or other public place unless such dog is securely
muzzled.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR CERTAIN CIRCUS OR EXHIBITION ANIMALS.
   The keeping of animals, birds or fowl otherwise prohibited by this chapter
may be permitted by applying for a special permit from the City Council. Such
permits may be issued to permit circus performances or other public exhibitions
or entertainment events.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.12 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously inflict
unnecessary or needless cruelty, or torture, abuse or cruelly beat, strike or
abuse any animal, or by any act, omission or neglect cause or inflict any
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal,
whether such animal belongs to such person or to another, except that
reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
Any unwanted animals should be delivered to a licensed veterinarian or an
animal shelter.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.13 PENS, YARDS AND RUNS.
   (A)   All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein any animal is kept
shall be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and kept in good
repair and must comply with the city fencing ordinances.
   (B)   Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall be
securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair,
and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
   (C)   All pens, yards, runs or other structures wherein any animal is kept
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition so that no offensive
odors shall emanate from the premises.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.14 FOOD AND SHELTER FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in charge of any animal to fail, refuse
or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable water, shade or shelter,
or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal in hot, stormy, cold or
inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or upon any vehicle in a
cruel or inhumane manner.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of
June through September.
      SHELTER. As it applies to dogs, a moisture-proof structure of suitable
size to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of durable
material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground, and
with the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof material. Such structure
shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide
insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.15 BIRDS; BUILDINGS AND COOPS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to erect, place, maintain or continue
any pen, coop, yard or other building upon any lot or ground in the city for
the purpose of confining or housing any birds, unless the same is at least 100
feet from any dwelling, house, apartment, hotel, restaurant, food or drinking
establishment or rooming-house, school, church or any building wherein people
are employed, and unless the floor of such building or coop is constructed of
such material and in such a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at
all times, and unless the location of such shall be authorized by the Board of
Health and allowed under the city zoning code, as amended.
   (B)   All coops and other buildings wherein birds are kept shall be provided
with tightly closed receptacles for manure, of dimensions sufficient to contain
all accumulations of manure so as to prevent its becoming a nuisance. No manure
shall be allowed to accumulate on the floor or on adjacent ground.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 BIRDS; KILLING OR INJURING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any kind of bird with
stones, or shoot at or use any implements with the intention of killing or
injuring any bird within the city.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 PIGEONS.
   (A)   Pigeons; public nuisance. Pigeons allowed by their owners to roost or
linger on the property or buildings of others pose a health hazard in addition
to offending aesthetic senses by pigeon contamination. Such lingering or
roosting is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Complaint procedure. Whenever a verified complaint of at least two
citizens is presented to the Police Department, alleging that a person is
allowing pigeons to linger upon the property of others, the Police Department
will inform the owner of such pigeons that the petition has been received and
shall cite the owner of the pigeons for the violation alleged in such petition.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall
be allowed to run at large, or be so exposed in any public place that the
health of human or beast may be affected; nor shall such an animal be shipped
or removed from owner’s premises, except under supervision of the Health
Department.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 ANIMAL BITES; RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Whenever any domesticated animal has bitten a person, it shall be
confined in such place as Animal Control may direct and for such period of
observation as may be necessary.
   (B)   Whenever a wild animal has bitten a person, it shall be killed,
avoiding damage to the head (brain area) and provided for testing as directed
by Animal Control or as directed by the Police Department.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner of an animal which has bitten a
person to immediately surrender the animal to Animal Control or as directed by
the Police Department.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.20 KEEPING OF WILD, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on his or
her premises any wild or vicious animal for display or for exhibiting purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply
to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions, or circuses. Exhibitions or
parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be
conducted only upon securing a permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any wild
animal as a pet, unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   (C)   It is unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods. The City
Attorney, or any resident of the city, may file a complaint in the name of the
city to enjoin all persons from maintaining or permitting a dangerous animal to
leave the premises of its owner when not under the control by leash or other
recognized control methods; to abate the same and to enjoin the owner of such
dog or other animal from permitting the same to leave the premises when not
under control by leash or other recognized methods. Upon the filing of a
complaint in the circuit court, the court, if satisfied that the nuisance may
exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction with bonds in such amount as the
court may determine enjoining the defendant from maintaining such nuisance. If
the existence of the nuisance is established, the owner of such dog or other
animal shall be in violation of this chapter, and, in addition, the court shall
enter an order restraining the owner from maintaining such nuisance and may
order that such dog or other animal be humanely dispatched.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious animal
within the city. Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may be
seized by Animal Control or any police officer.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 KILLING DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   When necessary for the protection of persons and property, any member of the
Police Department or any person may kill any dangerous or vicious animal.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 90.22 BEEKEEPING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any hive, stand
or box where unless the bees are kept in accordance with the following
provisions.
      (1)   If bee colonies are kept within 100 feet of any exterior boundary
of the property on which the hive, stand or box is located, a barrier that will
prevent bees from flying through it, no less than five feet high, shall be
installed and maintained along the exterior boundary. The barrier may be either
plant or artificial.
      (2)   Fresh, clean water in facilities for bees shall be provided on such
premises.
      (3)   The bees and equipment shall be kept in accordance with the
provisions of the state statutes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit the
keeping of bees in a hive, stand or box located or kept within a school
building for the purposes of study or observation.
(Ord. 2011-17, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Litter; disposal where; when
   
91.03   Accumulation constitutes nuisance
   
91.04   Illegal deposits
   
91.05   Prohibition on transfer of garbage
   
91.06   Offensive substances
   
91.07   Noxious weeds prohibited
   
91.08   Height of weeds and grasses
   
91.09   Barbed or electric fences
   
91.10   Overgrown trees or shrubbery
   
91.11   Stagnant water
   
91.12   Dense smoke
   
91.13   Open burning of refuse prohibited
   
91.14   Regulations regarding open burning
   
91.15   Exclusions; grills, fireplaces and fire pits
   
91.16   Expectoration in public buildings
   
91.17   Duty of maintenance of private property
   
91.18   Parking and storing prohibited
   
91.19   Vehicle parts
   
91.20   Premises
   
91.21   Notice to abatement
   
91.22   Lien
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle including but not all inclusive of trailers, boat
trailers, motor homes, and campers from which for at least seven days the
engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which the engine, wheels
or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the
vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power or trailers
being towed by a motor vehicle;
         (b)   Any vehicle which cannot be legally operated on the streets or
highways of this state because one or more of the following have been removed
or are not in proper condition and adjustment as required by the state statutes
as now in effect or hereinafter amended: front bumper, rear bumper, wheels,
windshield, steering wheel, door, hood, taillights or headlight; or
         (c)   Any vehicle not being properly licensed and/or registered with
the Secretary of State and/or Department of Conservation (boats on a trailer).
      (2)   INOPERABLE VEHICLES shall not include a motor vehicle which as been
rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power or
being towed by a motor vehicle in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations, in which case the inoperable vehicle must be repaired within ten
calendar days. (See § 73.08 for definition of ABANDONED VEHICLE on public
property.)
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulation of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs, brush or other plant materials sourced from that specific property.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used or unconsumed substances or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
pieces of corrugated metal not attached to a building, discarded scrap metal,
motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, or motors, ashes, tin cans, metalware,
crockery, stoneware, manure, metal storage tanks, unused or discarded hot water
heaters, parts of appliances, pieces of pipe, parts of furnaces, window frames
not permanently attached to a building, discarded telephone poles, portions of
buildings or sides of buildings not permanently attached to a building, pieces
of wood or lumber haphazardly strewn about, grass clippings or other lawn or
garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers
or other packaging construction material, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, household items, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, or
anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded,
abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property and/or is a public health and safety hazard. This
includes, but is not limited to, the keeping or the depositing on, or the
scattering over the premises of litter and/or landscape waste, inoperable
vehicles, weeds and/or grass in excess of permitted heights, stagnant water.
   OPEN. Not completely enclosed or encased in a garage, shed or other
structure which has intact four complete, not partial, walls and roof. Such
walls and roof shall be adequate to prevent the viewing of the contents of the
structure from the outside of the structure, excepting therefrom, viewing
through windows of a paned glass. An inoperable motor vehicle covered only by a
tarpaulin or other similar cover shall be deemed OPEN for the purpose of this
chapter.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity, or their legal representative, agent or assigns, and PERSON shall
mean both the lawful owner and tenant of any premises subject to this chapter.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property, including commercial property, not owned by
a state governmental agency.
(Ord. 2011-16, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 91.02 LITTER; DISPOSAL WHERE; WHEN.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property in this city unless:
   (A)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter, and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
   (B)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
   (C)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of
such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ACCUMULATION CONSTITUTES NUISANCE.
   The owner, occupant or lessee of any premises in the city shall remove from
said premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage and litter and shall keep
said premises at all times free and clear of any accumulation of garbage and
litter. Dumping of garbage and litter on vacant property or on streets, alleys
or other public places is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ILLEGAL DEPOSITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cast, place, sweep or deposit within the
limits of the city any garbage or litter in such a manner that it may be
carried or deposited by the action of the sun, wind, rain or snow into or upon
any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or into any
occupied or unoccupied premises within the limits of the city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation, other
than licensed refuse haulers to transfer any garbage from their residence or
place of business to another residence or place of business located within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No pile or deposit of manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste or refuse of any
kind whatsoever, nor accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance shall
be made within the limits of the city, nor shall any person unload, discharge
or put upon the right-of-way of any railroad, street, alley or public place
within the city, any manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste, refuse or offensive
or nauseous substance, nor shall any vehicle loaded with or having upon them
any such substance or substances, be allowed to remain or stand or park on or
along any railroad, street, alley or other public place within the limits of
the city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other
weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city are
a nuisance, and it is unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in
any place.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 HEIGHT OF WEEDS AND GRASSES.
   It is unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than
trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches anywhere in the city; any such plants or weeds exceeding
such height are a nuisance.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 BARBED OR ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful to erect or maintain a barbed wire, razor wire, concertina
and the electrification of fences within the corporate limits of the city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 OVERGROWN TREES OR SHRUBBERY.
   It is unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits of the city, to
permit branches of trees or shrubbery, growing upon premises owned or occupied
by any person, to grow over or across any public walk, alley or street in the
city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 STAGNANT WATER.
   Any stagnant pool of water in the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit any such
nuisance to remain or exist on any property under his, her or its control.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DENSE SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any
fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in the city so as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-9) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or allow the open burning
of any refuse with the exception of landscape waste within the city.
   (B)   Burning of landscape waste shall be limited to that which is generated
on the premises.
(Ord. 2011-16, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 REGULATIONS REGARDING OPEN BURNING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the open burning of landscape
waste:
   (A)   Controls. Open burning of landscape waste must be controlled to
prevent smoke or offensive odors at all times.
   (B)   Burning limitations. No open burning of landscape waste shall be
permitted after sunset. No open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted
on national holidays or Halloween.
   (C)   Burning on city property prohibited. Open burning of landscape waste
is prohibited on city streets, alleys or sidewalks.
   (D)   Constant attendance. All burning of landscape waste shall be
constantly attended by a person 15 years of age or older, who shall completely
extinguish the fire before abandoning or leaving the fire.
   (E)   Burning location. The burning location shall be kept clear of
obstacles and structures or anything that may become flammable or damaged as a
result of the combustion of landscape waste.
   (F)   Prohibit or suspend burning. The Fire Chief, with agreement of the
Police Chief, can suspend or prohibit any burning otherwise permitted under
this chapter if it is determined that conditions are such that burning
substantially threatens the safety of persons or property. Notice must be given
at least 24 hours prior to any citation for violation being issued.
   (G)   Conflict with state regulations. If a provision of this chapter is in
conflict with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency regulations, then
such regulations shall control.
   (H)   Controlled burn. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Fire
Department from burning materials in a controlled manner, under the supervision
of the Fire Department and with the approval of the Fire Chief and the Mayor.
(Ord. 2011-16, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 EXCLUSIONS; GRILLS, FIREPLACES AND FIRE PITS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of
barbeque grills, outdoor fireplaces or fire pits at any time. The location of
fireplaces, grills or fire pits must be limited to a location that is clear of
any obstacles and structures or anything that may become flammable or damaged
as a result of said use.
   (B)   Barbeque grills, fireplaces and fire pits must be controlled or so
positioned to prevent smoke from disturbing others.
   (C)   Outside fireplaces, grills and fire pits are only for the uses
intended; seasoned, dry wood, charcoal and gas units are the only combustible
materials allowed.
(Ord. 2011-16, passed 9-12-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 EXPECTORATION IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate upon the floor of any
public building within the city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person, owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PARKING AND STORING PROHIBITED.
   Inoperable vehicles may not be parked, stored or left in the open on private
property unless it is necessary for the operation of a business enterprise
lawfully conducted thereon, in which case the vehicles cannot be stored more
than ten calendar days.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 VEHICLE PARTS.
   Storing, placing or allowing to remain in the open on streets, alleys, or
private property of vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors, and materials for
a period of more than 48 hours in any one calendar month is hereby prohibited
unless necessary for the operation of a business enterprise lawfully conducted
thereon.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure or place to remain in
such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any such
structure, building or place, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, 14-1-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 NOTICE TO ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve, or cause to be
served, a written notice upon the owner and/or occupant of the premises upon
which litter, inoperable motor vehicle, or another nuisance has been allowed to
exist. If the person so served does not abate the litter, inoperable motor
vehicle, or other nuisance within the below listed time frame, the city may, in
addition to any fine imposed, proceed to abate the problem by removing the
litter, inoperable motor vehicle, or other nuisance, keeping an account of the
expense for the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by the
owner or occupant.
      (1)   Height of weeds and grasses: abatement within four days of notice;
      (2)   Dense smoke and open burning of refuse: abatement immediately upon
notice; and
      (3)   All other violations: abatement within seven days of notice.
   (B)   If the expense is not paid by the owner or occupant within 20 days of
them being informed of such charges, then the city shall be entitled to take
legal action to recover said expenses, and in addition thereto, the city shall
be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys fees and court costs in such
legal action.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to the foregoing, the city may place a lien upon the real
estate from which litter, inoperable vehicle, or another nuisance was removed.
The lien shall be in the amount of expense incurred by the city for such
abatement. To perfect such a lien, the city must send the owner of the real
estate a notice which includes the amount of expense incurred by the city in
removing the litter, inoperable motor vehicle, or other nuisance; and a
statement that if the expense remains unpaid for a period of ten days beyond
the date of the notice, that the charges may create a lien upon the real
estate.
   (B)   If after complying with the foregoing provisions of this section and
the expenses remain unpaid, the city shall be entitled to file a Notice of Lien
in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds, Marshall County, Illinois, which notice
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   A description of such real estate sufficient for the identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money due for the abatement of the litter, an
inoperable motor vehicle, or other nuisance violation; and
      (3)   The date when such amount became due under the notice.
   (C)   The city shall send a copy of the notice of lien to the owner of
record of the real estate.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any section of this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than
$750 for each offense hereof, and each day of violation occurs or is allowed to
remain constitutes and shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to, and not
in lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law.
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Supervision
   
92.02   Construction
   
92.03   Bond
   
92.04   Specifications
   
92.05   Injury to pavements
   
92.06   Repairs
   
92.07   Defects
   
92.08   Obstructions
   
92.09   Barricades
   
92.10   Disturbing barricades
   
92.11   Private use
   
92.12   Encroachments
   
92.13   Drains
   
92.14   Poles and wires
   
92.15   Gasoline pumps
   
92.16   Excavations
   
92.17   Deposits on streets
   
92.18   Deposits on sidewalk
   
92.19   Driveways
§ 92.01 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   He or she shall have supervision over all work thereon, and the
cleaning thereof, and shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance
provisions relating to such public places (except traffic ordinances) and is
hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same without
having first secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk, and
shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the extent
thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction work.
   (C)   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Mayor and the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 BOND.
   Each applicant shall file a bond, in an amount and with sureties to be
approved by the Mayor and the City Council, conditioned to indemnify the city
from any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of
doing the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavement shall be made in conformity with the
specifications laid down from time to time by the Mayor and the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 INJURY TO PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade; or to knowingly injure any street, sidewalk or alley
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 REPAIRS.
   All public streets, alley and sidewalk pavement shall be in good repair.
Such work whether done by the city or the abutting owner, shall be under the
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every city officer or employee becoming cognizant of
any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the Superintendent of Public Works as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Superintendent
of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 BARRICADES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk or other public place or making an excavation in or adjacent
to the same shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person
or vehicle by reason of the work; such barricades shall be protected by
suitable lights at night time.
   (B)   Any defect in such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury; and
any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation
in any public place, while the same remains open, shall guard such opening or
excavation by property barricades and lights.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place, as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale; or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on such
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.14 POLES AND WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having
first secured permission from the Mayor and the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.15 GASOLINE PUMPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in
any public street, alley or sidewalk without having first secured a permit
therefor from the Mayor and the City Council.
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued until the applicant furnishes a bond to
indemnify the city against loss or liability in an amount to be approved by the
City Council, for any such loss or liability occasioned by such tank or pump or
fixtures thereto.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in or tunnel under any
public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the city without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall specify the intended location and purpose of the
excavation.
   (B)   No person shall make any such excavation or tunnel without first
having secured and furnished the city with a copy of or certificate of a bond
or policy in an amount to be approved by the City Council conditioned to
indemnify and hold the city harmless from any loss, damage or liability
resulting from the work done or any acts or omissions in connection therewith.
   (C)   Any such person making any such excavation shall refill the same
property and shall restore the surface to its condition before the excavation
was made, as soon as possible.
   (D)   All such excavations, refills and resurfacing shall be made subject to
the supervision and under the direction of the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or which may cause injury to any person,
animal or property.
   (B)   Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to
delivery for use, provided that such deposit does not reduce the usable width
of the street or roadway at that point to less than 18 feet, and provided that
such material or coal other than material used in actual building construction,
shall not be permitted to remain in such street for more than three hours,
except by and with a written permit issued by the Superintendent of Public
Works.
   (C)   Any such material or coal shall be guarded by lights if the same
remains upon any street after night time.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.18 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be temporarily deposited on
sidewalks provided that the usable width of the sidewalk is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk after sundown.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any driveway in or
across any public walk in the city where this necessitates any interference
with or change in the grade of any public sidewalk, curb or parkway without
having first obtained a permit therefor from the City Council. Applications for
such permits shall state the size, location and material to be used in such
driveway; and it shall be unlawful to depart from such specifications or vary
from them without permission from the Mayor and the City Council.
   (B)   A fee of $25 shall be paid for such permit.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation maintaining
such driveway to keep the same free from snow and ice or any obstruction, and
to keep the same in good repair where the same crosses a public sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Planting
   
93.02   Removal
   
93.03   Injury
   
93.04   Advertisements or notices
   
93.05   Dangerous trees
   
93.06   Wires
   
93.07   Gas pipes
   
93.08   Excavations
Trees; City Tree Board
   
93.20   Purpose and intent
   
93.21   Definitions
   
93.22   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board
   
93.23   Term of office
   
93.24   Compensation
   
93.25   Duties and responsibilities
   
93.26   Operation
   
93.27   Spacing
   
93.28   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
93.29   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants
   
93.30   Streets and city right-of-way
   
93.31   Tree topping
   
93.32   Pruning, corner clearance
   
93.33   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
93.34   Removal of stumps
   
93.35   Interference with City Tree Board
   
93.36   Arborists; license and bond
   
93.37   Review by City Commission
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall be
referred by him or her to the Mayor and City Council. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the direction and approval of the Committee
on Streets and Alleys.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub in any street,
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall be
referred by him or her to the Mayor and City Council for approval before
permission shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any such public
place.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs or obstructs any sidewalk, street or
other public place in the city in such a way as to impede, interfere with or
endanger traffic or travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner
of the abutting premises on which such trees or shrub grows so that the
obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such
tree grows or stands.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or other rope to any tree on
city property without permission of the Mayor and the City Council.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain poles and wires in
the streets, alleys or other public places in the city shall, in the absence of
provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles
free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as may be
possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed and subject
to the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works, so that no injury
shall be done to the poles or wires or shrubs and trees by contact.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 GAS PIPES.
   Any person, firm or corporation maintaining any gas pipe in the city shall,
in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
TREES; CITY TREE BOARD
§ 93.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect the
public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of
the planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within
the city.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the Mayor and City Council that the terms
of this subchapter shall be construed to promote the following:
      (1)   The planting, maintenance, restoration and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants within the city; and
      (2)   The protection of the residents of the city from personal injury
and property damage, and the protection of the city from property damage caused
or threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or removal of trees, shrubs
or other plants located within the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY-OWNED PROPERTY. Property located within the city limits of the city
either:
      (1)   Owned by the city in fee simple; or
      (2)   Impliedly or expressly dedicated to the city.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation and public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of
land.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and ail other woody vegetation on land
lying within the city right-of-way for all streets, avenues, alleys or ways
within the city.
   TREES, SHRUBS AND OTHER PLANTS. All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except
lawn grass or flowers less than 24 inches in height.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.22 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board, which shall
consist of eight members, with at least one being a city resident with a degree
and/or experience in tree and plant horticulture, the Superintendent of Public
Works as a representative of the Public Works Department, and six other members
who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.23 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of the seven persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
two years, except that the term of three of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for one year and that the term of one person of the first Board
shall be for three years.
   (B)   In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member,
his or her successor shall be appointed, by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.24 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.25 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to investigate, counsel, update
annually and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning,
planting, replanting and removal or disposition of trees and shrubs along city
streets and other public places. Such plan will be presented annually to the
Mayor and City Council, and the Tree Board will determine, with the assistance
of any experts the Tree Board wishes to consult, a list of street tree species
for the city. This list shall be used to select appropriate trees to be planted
on city rights-of-way and shall become part of the overall comprehensive tree
plan for the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.26 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.27 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes established by the Tree Board and no trees may be planted closer
together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and
large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a
landscape architect and/or the Tree Board.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.28 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes as established by the
Tree Board and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by the Tree Board.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.29 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No street trees shall be planted within 25 feet of any street corner
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines unless
prior approval has been obtained from the Tree Board. No street trees shall be
planted within 35 feet of any fire hydrant.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.30 STREETS AND CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and other shrubs within the right-of-way of all streets, avenues,
alleys, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public ways
and grounds. The city may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to the sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other
public improvements, or is infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other
pests if such trees are located on city rights-of-way or property.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.31 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or city department to top any
street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility lines or other wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from the ordinance by
the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.32 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches do not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection so
that there is a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a danger to the safety of the public.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device
or sign.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.33 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Board will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the day of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owners
property tax notice.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.34 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the ground so
that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.35 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.36 ARBORISTS; LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. No license shall be
required of any public service company or city employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance
for personal injury and property damage covering said applicant in at least the
amount of $50,000 for each person and $100,000 for each accident involving
personal injury and at least $25,000 property damage indemnifying the city or
any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.37 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and
make a final decision.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: SIGNS AND AWNINGS
Section
   
94.01   Permits
   
94.02   Bonds
   
94.03   Construction
   
94.04   Height above walk
§ 94.01 PERMITS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard
or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or other public way in the
city without having first obtained a permit therefor as herein provided.
Permits for signs, canopies or signboards shall be issued by the City Clerk,
after inspection and approval by the Zoning Officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 BONDS.
   Each person, firm or corporation maintaining such a sign shall file with the
City Clerk evidence of bond or indemnity policy in the sum of $5,000,
conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss or damage or liability that may
result from the construction or maintenance of such sign or canopy. Such bond
or indemnity policy shall have such sureties as may be approved by the Mayor
and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will
be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other cause.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 HEIGHT ABOVE WALK.
   The lowest part of any such canopy, sign or any nonrigid awning, or any
support thereof which extends over any public way shall be at least six feet
above the level of the walk or public way over which it extends; but no such
sign shall be maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of
its support or of the sign is less than 15 feet above the level of such public
way.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
Purpose and Definitions
   
95.01    Purpose
   
95.02    Definitions
Nuisances Generally
   
95.15    Enumeration
   
95.16    Nuisances prohibited
   
95.17    Delegation of authority
Sound Amplifying Devices
   
95.25    License required; declaration of nuisance
   
95.26    Duration of license
Nuisance Abatement
   
95.35    Abatement required
   
95.36    Violation notice and report
   
95.37    Right of entry
   
95.38    Abatement by the city - generally
   
95.39    Abatement by the city - emergency abatement
   
95.40    Lien for abatement costs
Chronic Nuisance Properties
   
95.50    Abatement of chronic nuisance properties
   
95.51    Procedure
   
95.52    Commencement of action; burden of proof
   
95.53    Remedies
 
   
95.98    Remedies cumulative
   
95.99    Penalty
PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   It is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of this community that the city define, prevent, and abate nuisances,
and that properties where repeated unlawful actions, behaviors, or conditions
that constitute nuisances, be controlled.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. See definition in §§
73.07 and
73.08.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Property upon which two or more of the behaviors
or conditions constituting a nuisance have occurred during any 180-day period,
as a result of any two separate factual events that have been independently
investigated by any law enforcement agency.
   CONTROL. The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. See definition in §
91.01.
   NUISANCE. See definition in §
91.01.
      (1)   In general, a NUISANCE includes any person doing an unlawful act or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, alley,
sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainage;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a NUISANCE shall
include, but not be limited to, the behaviors and the conditions expressly
identified in this chapter to be NUISANCES.
   OWNER. See definition in 5 ILCS 70/1.05 and §
10.02.
   PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly ascent or agree to the doing of an act.
   PERSON. See definition in 5 ILCS 70/1.05 and §
91.01.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, but not limited to, an owner, occupant of property under
his or her domain, ownership, or control.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, public or private, within the corporate limits
of the city that is not a public street, highway, or alley. See definition in §
10.02.
   STREET, HIGHWAY, or ALLEY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel. (5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   VEHICLE. A mechanical device used as an instrument of conveyance for humans
or things, which may be self-propelled or towed, and designed mainly for use or
used on highways and streets. Exceptions are: VEHICLES moved solely by human
power, low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed gas bicycles, VEHICLES used
exclusively on fixed rails or track, or motorized wheel chairs operated by
handicapped persons.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019)
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 95.15 ENUMERATION.
   (A)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to
be or remain on any property of any of the following items, conditions, or
actions is hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided, however,
this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting,
or restrictive.
      (1)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, or other things in violation of §§
91.01 et seq.
      (2)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes,
racoons, skunks, and other vermin in violation of §§
90.01 et seq.
      (3)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than an ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located in violation of §§
150.01 et seq.
      (4)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises, in violation of §§
74.03,
74.04, and
90.05.
      (5)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches in violation of §§
74.05.
90.15, and
91.06.
      (6)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death, in violation of §§
91.01 through
91.06.
      (7)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances, in violation of §§
52.003 and
151.09.
      (8)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted,
performed, or maintained, in violation of §§
153.025 to
153.027.
      (9)   Any accumulation of stagnant water in violation of §
91.11.
      (10)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities, in violation of §§
74.05,
91.12 to
91.15,
91.21, and
153.025.
      (11)   Any grass, weeds, or other unhealthful or noxious growth to grow
or stand to a height exceeding eight inches in violation of §§
91.07 and
91.08.
      (12)   Disorderly conduct in violation of 720 ILCS 5/26-1 and as further
defined in §§
31.18,
112.07, or
114.24.
      (13)   Unlawful use of weapons in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.
      (14)   Mob action in violation of 720 ILCS 5/25-1.
      (15)   Discharge of a firearm in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5 and 720
ILCS 5/24-1.6.
      (16)   Gambling in violation of 720 ILCS 5/28-1 and as further defined in
§§
112.30 to
112.35 and
114.22.
      (17)   Possession, manufacture, or delivery of controlled substances in
violation of 720 ILCS 570/40 et seq.
      (18)   Assault or battery or any related offense in violation of 720 ILCS
5/12-1 et seq.
      (19)   Sexual abuse or related offenses in violation of 720 ILCS 5/11-
1.50 et seq.
      (20)   Public indecency in violation of 720 ILCS 5/11-30, and as further
defined in §§
113.01 et seq.
      (21)   Prostitution in violation of 720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq., and as
further defined in §§
113.01 et seq.
      (22)   Criminal damage to property in violation of 720 ILCS 5/21-1 et
seq.
      (23)   Possession, cultivation, manufacture, or delivery of cannabis in
violation of 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
      (24)   Illegal consumption, possession, or sale of alcohol in violation
of 235 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and as further defined in §§
70.35 et seq. and
114.01 et seq.
      (25)   Violation of any state statute controlling or regulating the sale
or use of alcoholic beverages in violation of 235 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
      (26)   Violation of any state statute relative to rubbish and garbage,
including, but not limited to, 720 ILCS 5/47-10 and 720 ILCS 5/47-15, and as
further defined in §§
52.003,
91.01 to
91.06, and 151.06.
      (27)   Any other behavior or condition identified by state statute to be
a nuisance, including, but not limited to, those behaviors and conditions
identified in 720 ILCS 5/47-5, and as further defined in §§ 114.01 et seq.
      (28)   Inoperable vehicles which are in view of the general public or
abandoned vehicles on public or private property that are in violation of §§
73.07,
73.08,
91.01 et seq., and
111.03.
      (29)   Violation of §§
95.25 et seq. of this code relative to sound amplifiers as further defined in
§§
114.20,
114.21,
153.025 and
153.045.
      (30)   Unauthorized signs in view of any street or highway in violation
of §§
70.07 and
94.01 to
94.04.
      (31)   Unauthorized planting, removal, or injury to trees or shrubs on
any public property, street, or public place in violation of §§
93.01 to
93.07.
      (32)   Unauthorized construction, disturbance, deposits, encroachments,
or use of a public place, street, alley, or sidewalk in violation of §§
92.01 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or enforced such that it
would penalize tenants or landlords in violation of 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5, or any
other person in violation of any other state or federal law.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance unless otherwise permitted under §§
110.01 et seq.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to delegate procedural
responsibilities to enforce this chapter to another member of the Police
Department, while maintaining oversight of the process.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019)
SOUND AMPLIFYING DEVICES
§ 95.25 LICENSE REQUIRED; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   No person shall use any device, either mobile or stationary, for the purpose
of amplifying the human voice or other sounds in such manner that the voice or
other sound is audible in a street or highway or other public property without
first securing a license therefor from the Chief of Police. The use of any
device in violation of this subchapter is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police may, on application, grant a license upon such
reasonable conditions as may be established by the Chief of Police, which
entitles the holder to use a device described in §
95.25 during a single calendar day. A new license must be secured for each
calendar day.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
NUISANCE ABATEMENT
§ 95.35 ABATEMENT REQUIRED.
   If the city determines that a nuisance exists within the city, the Chief of
Police shall require the owner and/or person in charge of the property upon
which the nuisance exists, or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance,
to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see
§ 95.99
§ 95.36 VIOLATION NOTICE AND REPORT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall serve a violation notice and report upon the
owner or person in charge of the property on which a nuisance exists, or upon
the person causing or maintaining the nuisance, requiring that the nuisance be
abated within five calendar days from the service of the violation notice and
report.
   (B)   The violation notice and report shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or person in charge of the
property on which a nuisance exists, or upon the person causing or maintaining
the nuisance, served with the violation notice and report;
      (2)   A description of the type and nature of the nuisance;
      (3)   The date and time the nuisance was observed;
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
      (5)   The penalty assessed pursuant to §
95.99.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In order to investigate, confirm, and report a nuisance, any Police Officer,
Ordinance Enforcement Inspector, Building Inspector, or other designated
official shall, upon proper identification, be permitted at any reasonable hour
and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any property or
building located thereon to make an examination thereof, as long as such
individual has reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists there.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.38 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY - GENERALLY.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was
served to abate the nuisance, the Chief of Police shall proceed to abate such
nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement
thereof.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.39 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY - EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   When, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, there is actual and immediate
danger to the public or occupants of particular property caused by a nuisance
on such property, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered,
without any notice or hearing, to order and require such property to be
vacated. The Chief of Police shall immediately post the property, warning of
the dangerous condition, and shall then abate such nuisance and prepare a
statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.40 LIEN FOR ABATEMENT COSTS.
   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a nuisance shall
be deemed a debt to the city by the owner or person in charge of the property
upon which the nuisance existed. Such costs and expenses shall become a lien
upon the property affected. The lien shall be superior to all prior existing
liens and encumbrances, except taxes; provided, however that within 90 days
after completion of the abatement, the city shall file a notice of lien for the
costs and expenses with the Marshall County Clerk and Recorder. The lien may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose, which shall be commenced within three
years after the date of filing of the notice of lien. Upon payment of all of
the costs and expenses, the lien shall be released by the city.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
§ 95.50 ABATEMENT OF CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Any certain property that becomes a chronic nuisance property is
subject to the procedures and remedies set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any owner or person in charge who permits property under his or her
ownership or control to be a chronic nuisance property is subject to the
procedures and remedies set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.51 PROCEDURE.
   When the Chief of Police receives two or more reports documenting the
occurrence of a nuisance on or within a property during any 180-day period, as
a result of any two separate factual events, the Chief of Police shall
independently review such reports to determine whether they constitute
nuisances. Upon such findings, the Chief of Police may:
   (A)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property is a chronic
nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
      (2)   A statement that the Chief of Police has information that the
property may be a chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist, or that have occurred. The Chief of Police
shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a course of action
that the Chief of Police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise
to the violation;
      (3)   Demand that the person in charge respond to the Chief of Police
within ten days to discuss the nuisance activities; and
      (4)   In the event the person in charge proposes a course of action that
the Chief of Police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to
the violation and complies with such course of action, upon any such additional
conditions as the Chief of Police deems reasonable, the property will no longer
be considered a chronic nuisance property unless another nuisance arises within
the 180-day period following completion of the proposed course of action;
   (B)   After complying with the notification procedures described herein,
when the Chief of Police receives a report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within a property during any 180-day period, as a
result of any three separate factual events, and determines that the property
has become a chronic nuisance property, the Chief of Police shall:
      (1)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property has been
determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         (b)   A statement that the Chief of Police has determined the property
to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to his/her findings; and
         (c)   Demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to the
Chief of Police and propose a course of action that the Chief of Police agrees
will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation;
      (2)   Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge at
the address of the property determined to be a chronic nuisance property, or
such other place which is likely to give the person in charge notice of the
determination by the Chief of Police;
      (3)   A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at such address
as shown on the tax records of the property if the owner is different than the
person in charge, and shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid;
      (4)   A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property after ten
days has elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the person in
charge, and the person in charge has not contacted the Chief of Police;
      (5)   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property has
been determined to be a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or
otherwise affect the proceedings under this chapter;
      (6)   If after the notification, but prior to the commencement of legal
proceedings by the city pursuant to this chapter, a person in charge stipulates
with the Chief of Police that the person in charge will pursue a course of
action the parties agree will abate such nuisance activities giving rise to the
violation, the Chief of Police may agree to postpone legal proceedings for a
period of not less than ten, nor more than 30 days;
      (7)   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
Chief of Police shall maintain copies of the notice, as well as any other
documentation, which supports legal proceedings; and
      (8)   In the event the owner or person in charge proposes a course of
action that the Chief of Police agrees will abate the nuisance activities
giving rise to the violation and complies with such course of action, upon any
such additional conditions as the Chief of Police deems reasonable, the
property will no longer be considered a chronic nuisance property unless
another nuisance arises within the 180-day period following completion of the
proposed course of action.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.52 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the city
shall have the initial burden of showing the preponderance of the evidence that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   (B)   It is a defense of an owner in an action seeking the closure of
chronic nuisance property that the owner of the property at the time in
question could not, in the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine
that the property had become a chronic nuisance property.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.53 REMEDIES.
   In the event a court determines a property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than 30 days, but not more than
180 days, or the court may employ any other remedy deemed by it to be
appropriate to abate the nuisance. This remedy shall be in addition to the
penalties assessed under §
95.99, the costs provided for the abatement of nuisances by the city as
provided in §
95.40, and in addition to any and all other remedies which may be available to
the city under this code or state statutes. The remedies provided with respect
to a chronic nuisance property may not be settled by payment of the fine for
the underlying nuisances in accordance with §
10.99(B).
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.98 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   Unless otherwise expressly provided in this code or state statute, the
remedies provided in this chapter shall be in addition to any other rights and/
or remedies the city may have under this code or state statutes.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine not less than $100 for a first offense in any 12-month period, a fine of
not less than $250 for a second offense within any 12-month period, a fine of
not less than $500 for a third offense within any 12-month period, and a fine
of not less than $750 for a fourth offense and all subsequent offenses within
any 12-month period. This penalty may be enforced by issuance of the violation
notice and report provided in § 95.36. Each day any violation of this chapter
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. This penalty shall be in
addition to the costs provided for the abatement of nuisances by the city as
provided in § 95.40, and in addition to any and all other remedies which may be
available to the city under this code or state statutes.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-10-2019)
CHAPTER 96: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
96.01   Purpose; scope
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Annual registration required
   
96.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
96.05   Action on permit applications
   
96.06   Effect of permit
   
96.07   Revised permit drawings and GPS locations
   
96.08   Insurance
   
96.09   Indemnification
   
96.10   Security
   
96.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
96.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
96.13   General construction standards
   
96.14   Traffic control
   
96.15   Location of facilities
   
96.16   Construction methods and materials
   
96.17   Vegetation control
   
96.18   Removal, relocation, or modifications of utility facilities
   
96.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
96.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
96.21   Variances
   
96.98   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Tree Trimming Permit Application Form
   
Appendix B: Right-of-Way Permit Application Form
§ 96.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require certain utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter, to the extent authorized by applicable law.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. To the extent
authorized by applicable law and in the event that a utility other than a
telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or similar agreement with
the city, such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and control
during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. To the extent authorized by
applicable law and in the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency between,
the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the city and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   ASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The City of Lacon.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the City of Lacon.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
City Superintendent of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk
to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
96.04 and
96.05 of this chapter.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
96.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The City Superintendent of Public Works or
his or her designee.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, private line services, channel services, telegraph services,
teletypewriter, computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications
service, specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or
any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used herein, PRIVATE LINE means a
dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable services through a
cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. 521
et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services
subject to an open video system fee payable to the City through an open video
system as defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47
C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 96.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Superintendent of Public Works, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in §
96.08 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 96.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right-of-way which (1) changes the location of the facility, (2) adds
a new facility, (3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter), or
(4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility
on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way, without first
filing an application with the City Superintendent of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
96.08 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
96.10 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (See §
96.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District, and any other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $100. No application fee is required
to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the City
Superintendent of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, or applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the City Superintendent of
Public Works shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the City Superintendent of Public Works is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the City Superintendent of
Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all
instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the City Superintendent of Public Works, that the construction
proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4,
a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to commence
work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation for new construction. The City Superintendent of
Public Works shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the City Superintendent of Public Works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either (i) ten days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or (ii) 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
96.04 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided the
holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 96.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS AND GPS LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Revised permit drawings. In the event that the actual locations of any
facilities deviate in any material respect from the locations identified in the
plans, drawings and specifications submitted with the permit application, the
permittee shall submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify the locations of the actual facilities constructed
within the right-of-way and where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with §
96.21 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
   (B)   GPS locations. The permittee shall provide, upon request by the
Superintendent of Public Works, GPS locations illustrating the actual locations
of all of the facilities constructed by the permittee.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the city, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in division (A)(1)(a) and (b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as “X,” “C,” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten days following receipt
of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after
receipt by the City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the Mayor of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above, such as
evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer” under the Workers
Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better
and of a class size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 96.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this division
(B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the City Superintendent of Public Works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely
to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the City
Superintendent of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow
the permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to
each phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security
Fund for phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would
have been required under the provisions of this division (C) for any single
phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the permittee
shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division (C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
      (2)   The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) above, the city or its designee
may, at the option of the city: (1) correct the deficiencies; (2) upon not less
than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities or
equipment; or (3) after not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
city. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all costs of
removal.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices;
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the City Superintendent of Public Works shall determine, in the
exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such
decision shall be final. If requested, the City Superintendent of Public Works
shall state which standard or principle will apply to the construction,
maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s “Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices” and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to § 96.20 of this chapter,
the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the city.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division.
      (1)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the City Superintendent of Public Works determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the city’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation
or maintenance of any of the city’s utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet behind the face of the curb,
where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet the outer shoulder line
of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot of
the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet from and parallel to the right-of-way
line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot of the right-of-way line or as
near as practicable.
   (E)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code § 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot of the right-of-way line of
the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design, materials, and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations.
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the City
Superintendent of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring
or jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following pipe, and
the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of the
following pipe by more than one inch.
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided whip auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.”
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the City Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by the “Illinois Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices.” Where practicable, the excavated material
shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added protection.
Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved portion of the
roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing excavated
material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material shall be
hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.” When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date of construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Superintendent of Public Works, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Superintendent of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
96.21, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be located in
the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city-approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
(1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
(2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                      MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                        30 inches
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (as determined by city)
lines
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 entitled
“Construction of Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: (a) the crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or (b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, U.S. Department of Transportation, Part 192 “Transportation
of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards” (49
C.F.R § 192), IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction,” and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping.
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.”
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot width beyond the
appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be provided by an
extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or similar material
approved by the Superintendent of Public Works. With the approval of the
Superintendent of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the ICC,
or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the
appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the City Superintendent
of Public Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire,
poles, cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-
way prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the
public or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way
and other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Superintendent of Public
Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent of Public Works or
his or her designee, the hours of construction are from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground
facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with
the Illinois Underground Utility Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/
1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities—compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities—tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Superintendent of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days.
Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to remove all
or any portion of the facility if the City Superintendent of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the City Superintendent of Public Works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the City Superintendent of Public Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Superintendent of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the City
Superintendent of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request
shall identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is
requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The City Superintendent of Public Works
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The City Superintendent of Public
Works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision impractical or
unreasonable, given the public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Superintendent of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Superintendent of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have
the right to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as
it may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to
the City Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide
the appeal.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 96.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fines in accordance
with § 10.99 of this code. There may be times when the city will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or
cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility
shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action
is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city’s costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 11-13-2024)
APPENDIX A: TREE TRIMMING PERMIT APPLICATION FORM
 
•   Permit #
•   Date Approved:
•   Approved by:
•   Expiration Date:
 
   Permit Required Pursuant to Section 96.17(B) of the City Code
UTILITY INFORMATION
Name of Utility:
                                                                                                                       
Utility’s Address:
                                                                                                                     
Utility Telephone Number:                                    Utility Telecopy
Number:                                  
APPLICANT INFORMATION (IF DIFFERENT THAN UTILITY)
Name of Applicant:
                                                                                                                    
Applicant’s Address:
                                                                                                                  
Applicant Telephone Number:                               Applicant Telecopy
Number:                             
Applicant E-mail Address:
                                                                                                          
Applicant’s Interest in the Work Requested (If more space is needed, please
attach an additional sheet):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
SITE INFORMATION
Site Address:
                                                                                                                             
Start Date:                                              Anticipated Completion
Date:                                        
UNDER PENALTY OF INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION AND/OR PERJURY, I declare that I
have examined and/or made this application, and it is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that this application is for tree
trimming that is done by any utility with facilities in the right-of-way and
that is not performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations
specifically governing same. Any work performed upon grant of a permit
requested hereunder, will be accomplished by competent workers with supervision
who are experienced in accepted tree pruning practices. Furthermore, any work
performed upon grant of a permit requested hereunder shall be expeditiously
accomplished. I understand that poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
any tree trimming permit granted and for assessment of damages. The City will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The City may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition. I realize that the information that I have
affirmed hereon forms a basis for the issuance of the permit herein applied
for. For consideration of such permission, to the fullest extent authorized by
applicable law, I agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City of
Lacon, its Officers, Agents and Employees, from any and all claims resulting
from injuries, including death, damages of losses, including but not limited to
the general public, which may arise or which may be alleged to have risen out
of, or in conjunction with such tree trimming within the public Right-of-Way.
Utility/Applicant Name:                                               
By:
                                                                                                                                  
               Name [Printed]                                  Date
Signature:                                                                  
Title:
                                                                         
Contractor Name:                                                       
By:
                                                                                                                                   
               Name [Printed]                                  Date
Signature:                                                                    
Title:
                                                                         
 
APPENDIX B: RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT APPLICATION FORM
 
•   Permit #
•   Date Approved:
•   Approved by:
 
All Right-of-Way Work Shall Be Performed To The Standards and Regulations set
forth in the Title IX, Chapter 96 of the City of Lacon Code of Ordinances
UTILITY INFORMATION
Name of Utility:
                                                                                                                       
Utility’s Address:
                                                                                                                     
Utility Telephone Number:                                    Utility Telecopy
Number:                                  
APPLICANT INFORMATION (IF DIFFERENT THAN UTILITY)
Name of Applicant:
                                                                                                                    
Applicant’s Address:
                                                                                                                  
Applicant Telephone Number:                               Applicant Telecopy
Number:                             
Applicant E-mail Address:
                                                                                                          
Applicant’s Interest in the Work Requested (If more space is needed, please
attach an additional sheet):
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS (ADVISING THE APPLICANT OR UTILITY WITH RESPECT TO
THIS APPLICATION) (If more space is needed, please attach an additional sheet)
Name of Consultant:
                                                                                                                  
Consultant’s Address:
                                                                                                                 
Consultant Telephone Number:                               Consultant Telecopy
Number:                           
Consultant E-mail Address:
                                                                                                         
Consultant’s Discipline and/or Interest in the Work Requested (If more space is
needed, please attach an additional sheet):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS (ADVISING THE APPLICANT OR UTILITY WITH RESPECT TO
THIS APPLICATION)
Name of Consultant:
                                                                                                                  
Consultant’s Address:
                                                                                                                 
Consultant Telephone Number:                               Consultant Telecopy
Number:                           
Consultant E-mail Address:
                                                                                                         
Consultant’s Discipline and/or Interest in the Work Requested (If more space is
needed, please attach an additional sheet):
 
SITE INFORMATION
Site Address:
                                                                                                            
Start Date:                                               Anticipated
Completion Date:                                       
General Description of Proposed Work and the Purposes and Intent of the
Facility and the Uses to Which the Facility Will be Put. The Scope and Detail
of this Description Shall be Appropriate to the Nature and Character of the
Work to be Performed, with Special Emphasis on those Matters Likely to be
Affected or Impacted by the Work Proposed (If more space is needed, please
attach an additional sheet):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
DRAWINGS
Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed, including the
certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and specifications
comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations shall be provided before
approval. Please email these materials to laconpublicworks@gmail. com along
with this completed form.
TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN AND EMERGENCY CONTIGENCY PLAN
Have you placed on file with the City a written traffic control plan as
required by Section 96.04(C)(5)(i) of the City Code? Yes No (If no, you must
provide to the City)
Have you placed on file with the City an emergency contingency plan as required
by Section 96.04(C)(5)(H) of the City Code? Yes No (If no, you must provide to
the City)
INSURANCE/SECURITY FUND REQUIREMENTS
Is evidence of insurance on file with the City? Yes No
(If no, you must provide to the City)
If yes: Policy #:                                        Expires:
                                       
Have you placed on file with the City evidence of posting of the security fund
as required by Section 96.10 of the City Code? Yes No (If no, you must provide
to the City)
VARIANCE REQUEST
If a request for a variance is being made pursuant to Section 96.21 of the City
Code, identify each provision of Chapter 96 from which a variance is requested
and the reasons why a variance should be granted (If more space is needed,
please attach an additional sheet):
 
SUPPLEMENTAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC TYPES OF UTILITIES, AS
APPLICABLE
In the case of the installation of a new electric power, communications,
telecommunications, cable television service, video service or natural gas
distribution system, provide evidence of any "Certificate of Public Convenience
and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant is required
by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, which has been
issued by the Illinois Commerce Commission or other jurisdictional authority.
In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size, design,
construction class, and operating pressures (If more space is needed, please
attach an additional sheet):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have been
satisfied. Yes No
(If no, explain why on a separate sheet)
In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and water
pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District, and any other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied. Yes No
(If no, explain why on a separate sheet)
In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types of
petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed (If more space is needed, please attach an additional
sheet):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
UNDER PENALTY OF INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION AND/OR PERJURY, I declare that I
have examined and/or made this application, and it is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and belief. I agree to construct said improvement(s)
within the public Right-of-Way in the City of Lacon in compliance with Title
IX, Chapter 96 of the City Code and all provisions of the applicable
ordinances. I realize that the information that I have affirmed hereon forms a
basis for the issuance of the ROW permit(s) herein applied for and approval of
plans in connection therewith shall not be constructed to permit any
construction upon said premises or use thereof in violation of any provision of
any applicable ordinance or to excuse compliance therewith. For consideration
of such permission, to the fullest extent authorized by applicable law, I agree
to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City of Lacon, its Officers, Agents
and Employees, from any and all claims resulting from injuries, including
death, damages of losses, including but not limited to the general public,
which may arise or which may be alleged to have risen out of, or in conjunction
with such construction of improvement(s) within the public Right-of-Way.
Utility/Applicant Name:                                               
By:
                                                                                                                                  
               Name [Printed]                                  Date
Signature:                                                                  
Title:
                                                                         
Contractor Name:                                                       
By:
                                                                                                                                   
               Name [Printed]                                  Date
Signature:                                                                    
Title:
                                                                         
 
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND PERMITS
      
111.   MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS
      
113.   ADULT USE BUSINESSES
      
114.   LIQUOR
      
115.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Person subject to license
   
110.03   Forms
   
110.04   Signatures
   
110.05   Fees
   
110.06   Termination of licenses
   
110.07   Building and premises
   
110.08   Change of location
   
110.09   Location requirements; frontage consents defined
   
110.10   Frontage consents
   
110.11   Nuisances
   
110.12   Inspection
   
110.13   Revocation
   
110.14   Posting license
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be
made in writing to the City Clerk in the absence of provision to the contrary.
Each application shall state the names of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered, and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed fro the proper guidance of the city officials in the issuing of the
permit or license applied for.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 110.02 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject
to the requirement if by himself or herself or through an agent, employee or
partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the
business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively;
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 110.03 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
§ 110.04 SIGNATURES.
   (A)   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the Mayor
and Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the
ordinance of the city necessitates an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the City Clerk shall refer such application
to the proper officer for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making an investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The Health Officer
shall make or cause to be made an investigation in regard to such licenses in
connection with the care and handling of food and the prevention of nuisances
and the spread of disease, for the protection of health; and the Superintendent
of Public Works shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to
the construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations,
except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or some
other officer designated by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
§ 110.05 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the City Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business
until after the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee
shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction
thereof during which the business has been or will be pursued. Except as
otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of the corporate fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5)
§ 110.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the city, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the city a statement at
the time of the expiration of the license held by the licensee. If the license
is an annual one, the statement shall be mailed three weeks prior to the date
of such expiration; provided, that a failure to send out such notice, or the
failure of the licensee to receive it, shall not excuse the licensee from a
failure to secure a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a
defense in action for operation without a license.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6)
§ 110.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit
shall be issued for any thing or act, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the ordinances of
the city. No such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any
business or performance of any act which would involve a violation of the
zoning ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7)
§ 110.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
act, may be changed, provided ten days’ notice thereof is given to the City
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary, provided that the
building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the ordinances are
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-8)
§ 110.09 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; FRONTAGE CONSENTS DEFINED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall locate, build, construct, operate
or maintain any business or structure of any kind, for which frontage consents
are required, in any block in the city where a majority of the houses abutting
on both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively for residence
purposes, without having first secured the written consent of the owners of a
majority of the frontage abutting on such street on both sides within such
block.
   (B)   The term BLOCK as used in this section shall be construed to mean and
include that portion of the street between the two intersections with other
public streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided that if,
on either or both sides of such location there is not an intersection within
300 feet of the center of the specified location, the block shall be considered
as terminating at a point 300 feet from such center. The term STREET as used in
this section shall be construed to mean and include such highways as have been
dedicated either by common law or statutory dedication as public streets and
are actually in use as such; and the term STREET shall not be construed to
include or mean merely service highways which are commonly known as alleys.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of adjoining neighboring owners is required as a
prerequisite to the conduct of business, such consents must be obtained by
securing the necessary signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition
shall be filed with the City Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn, and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to any such petition or to
falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on, and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code shall not be
construed to amend or change any zoning ordinance provision of the city; and no
such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act, in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary thereto to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose
business is governed by the provision to give any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or
commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor and
City Council may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business in the city who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection,
or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his or her duty in making such
inspection, provided that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless
written premises, in the name of the city, stating that such inspection or
sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or to obtain
the sample.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor and the
City Council during the life of such licenses or permit for the violation by
the licensee or permittee of any ordinance provisions, relating to the license
or permit, the subject of the license or permit, or to the premises occupied;
such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.14 POSTING LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
city to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Junk dealers
   
111.02   Solicitors
   
111.03   Trailer camps
§ 111.01 JUNK DEALERS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the
business of junk dealer or to keep any junk shop, store or place for the
purchase or sale of junk, rags, old rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass,
copper or empty bottles, without having first secured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-1)
   (B)   Applications. Applications for such licenses shall be made in
conformance with the provisions of the ordinances relating to licenses.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-2)
   (C)   Fee. The fee to be paid to the City Clerk for such licenses shall be
$25.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-3)
   (D)   Junk yards. It shall be unlawful to maintain any junk yard at any
place in the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-4)
   (E)   Stolen goods. Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in
possession of any good articles or things of value which may have been lost or
stolen shall upon demand produce such article or thing to any member of the
Police Department for examination.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-5)
   (F)   Vehicle. Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his or
her business, shall bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of
the owner and proprietor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13-5-6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 SOLICITORS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation not otherwise herein licensed, to engage in the business of
hawking, peddling, huckstering or soliciting the sale of, any merchandise,
article, thing or service without having first secured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 13-7-1)
   (B)   Applications. Applications for such licenses shall be made to the City
Clerk, and shall state thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be
operated, the kind of merchandise or service to be peddled, sold or solicited,
and the permanent address of the peddler.
(Prior Code, § 13-7-2)
   (C)   Fee. The fee for such license shall be $10 for a license for one day.
(Prior Code, § 13-7-3)
   (D)   Fraud. Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any
fraud, cheating or misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or
through an employee, while acting as a peddler in the city, or who shall
barter, sell or peddle any goods, or merchandise, or wares other than those
specified in his or her application for a license shall be fined based on §
10.99; and the Mayor may revoke his or her license for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-7-4)
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the sale or solicitation
of sale of agricultural products raised or produced by the person, firm or
corporation engaged in that business.
(Prior Code, § 13-7-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 TRAILER CAMPS.
   (A)   Regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any house-car or
automobile trailer, used for human habitation upon any plot of ground in the
city, except in a duly licensed trailer camp.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to remove the wheels or other transporting
device from any such trailer or otherwise to affix said trailer permanently to
the ground so as to prevent ready removal of any such trailer, unless a permit
to do so is first obtained. Any such alteration shall be construed as
converting the house-car or automobile trailer into a building and shall
subject it to the requirements of the building and sanitary regulations of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-1)
   (B)   License required; application. It shall be unlawful for any person to
establish or operate within the limits of the city, any automobile trailer camp
unless such person shall first obtain a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-2)
   (C)   Submission of plans. Each applicant for a license to maintain an
automobile trailer camp shall file a written application with the Clerk,
stating the name and address of the applicant, name and address of the owner or
manager of said camp, location of the camp ground, and the maximum number of
house-cars or automobile trailers the camp will accommodate. This application
shall be accompanied by plans of the camp showing the proposed or existing
locations of all buildings, toilet, bath and wash basin facilities, slop sinks,
water faucets, sewer connections, driveways and other improvements.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-3)
   (D)   Fees. The annual fee for such licenses shall be $500 for camps capable
of accommodating ten car-house trailers or, automobile trailers or less, and an
additional fee of $25 for each unit capacity in excess of ten. The fee for a
transfer of such license shall be $5.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-4)
   (E)   Water supply. An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes shall be supplied to meet the requirements of said trailer
camps. Said water shall be obtained from faucets only, conveniently located in
said trailer camp. No common drinking cups shall be used or permitted.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-5)
   (F)   Toilets, baths, slop sinks, garbage containers. Each trailer camp
shall adequately be provided with toilets, baths or showers, slop sinks and
garbage containers, which shall comply with the regulations of the ordinances
relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-6)
   (G)   Fixtures connected with sewer. It shall be unlawful to permit any
waste paper or material from toilets, showers, bathtubs, wash-basins or other
plumbing fixtures in the camp or house-car or automobile trailer to be
deposited upon the surface of the ground and all such fixtures when in use must
be connected with the sewer system or a septic tank by means of rigid pipe.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-7)
   (H)   Removal of garbage. It shall be the duty of the owner and operator to
provide for the collection and removal of garbage and other waste material and
to otherwise maintain the camp in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-8)
   (I)   House-trailer; automobile trailers; storage on premises. Nothing in
this section shall be deemed to prohibit the storage of any house-car or
automobile trailer on the home premises of its owner for any length of time
when said trailer is not used for living or sleeping purposes.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-9)
   (J)   Lights. The camp shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at all
times so that the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors.
(Prior Code, § 13-9-10)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Application
   
112.02   Licenses
   
112.03   Street shows
   
112.04   Athletic exhibitions
   
112.05   Order; crowding
   
112.06   Inspections
   
112.07   Indecent shows
   
112.08   Exhibition of criminals
   
112.09   Riots
   
112.10   Smoking
   
112.11   Signs
   
112.12   Exit lights
   
112.13   Premises
   
112.14   Exceptions
Raffle Regulations
   
112.30   Definitions
   
112.31   License required
   
112.32   Application/issuance
   
112.33   Conduct of raffles
   
112.34   Manager/bond
   
112.35   Records
Cross-reference:
   Licenses and Permits, see
Chapter 110
   Liquor, see
Chapter 114
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the
city, whether specifically licensed in another article in this chapter or not.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open
to the public, and for admittance to which a fee is charged, without having
first obtained a license therefor; provided, that the provisions of this
section shall not be held to apply to those amusements which are specifically
licensed by any other ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall comply with all of the general provisions of the ordinances relating to
such application.
   (C)   For such licenses the following fees shall be paid:
      (1)   Menageries: $20 per day;
      (2)   Carnivals: $20 per day;
      (3)   Exhibitions of inanimate objects: $20 per day; and
      (4)   Other amusements: $20 per day.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 STREET SHOWS.
   No permit shall be granted or given for any carnival, exhibition, show or
other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place
that the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be a
public place, except on order of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 112.04 ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit any race between
persons, animals or vehicles, or any baseball game, boxing or wrestling matches
or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a fee is
charged to either or both the spectator or participant without having first
procured a license therefor.
   (B)   The proprietor of such exhibition shall submit to the City Clerk a
statement verified under oath of the gross receipts of each game, contest or
race, within one week after such exhibition. At the same time, the proprietor
or person exhibiting or operating such exhibition shall pay to the Clerk a sum
equal to 3% of the gross receipts.
   (C)   Sufficient members of the Police Department shall be admitted free of
charge to all such exhibitions for the purpose of preserving and maintaining
order; and the City Clerk may post a person or any number of persons at the box
office of each such performance; and may examine all the books pertaining to
such performance showing or tending to show gross receipts.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 ORDER; CROWDING.
   (A)   The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must be orderly and
quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such
amusement, show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other
risks.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and Fire Marshal to see that
every exhibition, amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is
inspected by a member of the Police and Fire Department, and to ensure
conformity with the provisions concerning such amusements.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-9)
§ 112.07 INDECENT SHOWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to exhibit,
present, conduct or take part in any indecent show, theatrical, play, motion
picture, exhibition or other form of public amusement or show.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 EXHIBITION OF CRIMINALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to exhibit any
criminal or the body of any criminal or any person who shall have become
notorious because of the commission of a crime, in any theatrical, exhibit,
carnival or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 RIOTS.
   It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind
which tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.10 SMOKING.
   It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe on
or beneath the stage or in any dressing room of any building used as an
assembly hall with seating accommodations for more than 100 persons or in which
theatrical shows, amusements, lectures or other entertainments are offered,
presented, operated or exhibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 SIGNS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises or of the occupant in
charge, to provide and place printed signs on which words “No Smoking” shall
appear in letters at least four inches high, in conspicuous places, at least
two signs being upon the stage or in the wings thereof and one in each dressing
room.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 EXIT LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or
hall used as an assembly hall with accommodations for 100 persons or more in
which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainment is
offered, operated or presented, to provide and place a sign on which the word
“EXIT” shall appear in letters at least four inches high, over every door or
other opening from such hall to ever means of egress therefrom, and a light
shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which light
shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to the
public and until the audience has left the hall.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or permit the operation of any amusement
licensed in this chapter unless the premises in which such amusement is
operated or permitted to be operated conforms with all the provisions or
requirements in this code relating to public gatherings.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the above and foregoing sections in this subchapter shall apply to
public shows, theatricals or other amusements held, conducted or sponsored by
nonprofit civic organizations located within the city, nor shall the sections
of this subchapter be construed to apply to public shows or exhibitions of a
musical or educational nature under the auspices and conduct of residents of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-17)
RAFFLE REGULATIONS
§ 112.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by method common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that would be otherwise cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code of
2012, conducted by an organization licensed under this subchapter, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or combination of numbers or by some
other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; or
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of the persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 1995-12, passed 12- -1995)
§ 112.31 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct
raffles without having first obtained a license pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans’ organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence for a period
of five years immediately before making application for a license and which
have been during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership engaged in
carrying out their objects, or to a non-profit fundraising organization that
the city determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship a the result of an illness, disability, accident or
disaster.
(Ord. 1995-12, passed 12- -1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.32 APPLICATION/ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Applications for a raffle license shall be made to the City Clerk, in
writing, and shall contain a sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit
character of the applicant, signed by the presiding officer and the secretary
of the organization.
   (B)   The application and license must specify the area or areas within the
city in which the raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time period during
which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination of
winning chances and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined.
   (C)   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles as defined in
this subchapter.
   (D)   The following persons are ineligible for any license under this
subchapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (D)
(1), (D)(2) or (D)(3) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interests,
or in which such a person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (D)(1), (D)
(2) or (D)(3) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; or
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (D)(1), (D)
(2) or (D)(3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined by this subchapter.
   (E)   Licenses issued shall be for six raffles during a calendar year, from
the issuance of the license. The aggregate retail value of all prizes or
merchandise awarded by a licensee during a single raffle shall not exceed
$25,000. The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $10,000. The maximum price which may be charged
for each raffle chance issued or sold shall be $100. The maximum number of days
during which chances for a specific prize may be sold is 270 days.
(Ord. 1995-12, passed 12- -1995)
§ 112.33 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of the raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises in which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this subchapter.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances only with permission of a parent or guardian. A person
under the age of 18 years may be within the area where winning chances are
being determined only when accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   (G)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle or a winning hand is determined, the lessor shall not be criminally
liable if the person who uses the premises for the determining of winning
chances does not hold a license issued by the city.
(Ord. 1995-12, passed 12- -1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.34 MANAGER/BOND.
   All operation of and the conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall
give a fidelity bond in such sum as is determined by the city in favor of the
organization conditioned upon said manager’s honesty in the performance of his
or her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the city not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation. The city
may waive this bond requirement by unanimous vote.
(Ord. 1995-12, passed 12- -1995)
§ 112.35 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct rallies and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the receipt.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of the raffles program shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall keep
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for the other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the City Council
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffles and the
distribution of net proceeds as required by this subchapter.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation or
raffles or pokers runs for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 1995-12, passed 12- -1995)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT USE BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and findings
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Adult uses enumerated
   
113.04   Limitations on adult uses
   
113.05   Measurement of distance
   
113.06   License requirements
   
113.07   Issuance and term of license
   
113.08   Suspension or revocation of license
   
113.09   Exterior display
   
113.10   Display of license
   
113.11   Employment of persons under age of 18 prohibited
   
113.12   Illegal activities on premises
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented adult businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of adult
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. This chapter does not
apply to theaters, performing arts centers, civic centers and dinner theaters
where live dance, ballet, music and dramatic performances of serious artistic
merit are offered on a regular basis and in which the predominant business or
attraction is not the offering of entertainment which is intended for the
sexual interests or titration of customers, and where the establishment is not
distinguished by an emphasis on or the advertising or promotion of nude or
semi-nude performances. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to
condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Finding. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of
sexually oriented adult uses, presented in hearings and in reports made
available to the city, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City of Los
Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); Pap’s AM. v. City of Erie,
529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41
(1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glen
Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972);
Ben’s Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003) (and cases
cited therein); Wise Enterprises, Inc. v. Unified Gov’t of Athens-Clarke
County, Georgia, 217 F.3d 1360 (11th Cir. 2000); see BZAPS, Inc. v. City of
Mankato, 268 F.3d 603 (8th Cir. 2001); Sammy’s of Mobile, Ltd. v. City of
Mobile, 140 F.3d 993 (11th Cir. 1998); Artistic Entm’t, Inc. v. City of Warner
Robins, 223 F.3d 1306 (11th Cir. 2000); Schultz v. City of Cumberland, 26
F.Supp.2d 1128 (W.D. Wise. 1998), affd in part, rev’d in part, 228 F.3d 831
(7th Cir. 2000); See Gary v. City of Warner Robins, Georgia, 311 F.3d 1334
(11th Cir. 2002); Blue Canary Corp. v. City of Milwaukee, 270 F.3d 1156 (7th
Cir. 2001); Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control v. Alcoholic Beverage
Control Appeals Bd. of California, 99 Cal. App. 4th 880 (Cal. Ct. App. 2002);
Matney v. County of Kenosha, 86 F.3d 692 (7th Cir. 1996); LLEH, Inc. v. Wichita
County, 289 F.3d 358 (5th Cir. 2002); Berg v. Health & Hospital Corp., 865 F.2d
797 (1989); DiMa Corp. v. Town of Hallie, 185 F.3d 823 (1999); Entertainment
Concepts v. Maciejewski, 631 F.2d 497 (1980); Genusa v. City of Peoria, 619
F.2d 1203 (1980); Graff v. City of Chicago, 9 F.3d 1309 (1993); North Avenue
Novelties, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (1996); Chulchian v. City of
Indianapolis, 633 F.2d 27 (7th Cir. 1980); United States v. Sturman, 49 F.3d
1275 (7th Cir. 1995); County of Cook v. Renaissance Arcade and Bookstore, 122
Ill. 2d 123 (1988) (including cases cited therein); and other cases; and on
reports of secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented adult
businesses, including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona - 1979;
Minneapolis, Minnesota - 1980; Houston, Texas - 1997; Indianapolis, Indiana -
1984; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles,
California - 1977; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Whittier, California - 1978;
Austin, Texas - 1986; Seattle, Washington - 1989; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma -
1986; Police Reports, Gary, Indiana - 2000; Dallas, Texas - 1997; St. Croix
City, Wisconsin - 1993; Bellevue, Washington, - 1998; Newport News, Virginia -
1996; New York Times Square study - 1994; and also on findings from the Report
of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the Regulation of Adult Uses (June
6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the city finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, illicit sex acts,
potential spread of sexually transmitted diseases, lewdness, public indecency,
illegal drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on property values,
urban blight, pornographic litter and sexual assault and exploitation;
      (2)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, oral and anal sex, occur at
unregulated sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide
private or semi-private rooms, booths or cubicles for view films, videos or
live sexually explicit shows;
      (3)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of sexually
oriented businesses exacerbates the deleterious secondary effects of such
businesses; and
      (4)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
meanings respectively prescribed to them by this section:
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, films, records, recording tapes, video tapes
or other periodicals, for sale or for viewing either on or off the premises,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT DEVICE STORE. An establishment having as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade any device, appliance, instrument or object which is represented
either by the operator of the establishment or by its packaging, advertising or
other literature furnished therewith as enhancing, assisting, representing,
depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A nightclub, dance hall, bar, restaurant or
similar commercial establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the display of
specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the display of specified
sexual activities or nudity or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or drive-in theater
with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and
which regularly provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
which regularly advertises the availability of such material by means of a sign
visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises
advertising, including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television; and
      (2)   Regularly offers sleeping rooms for rent for a period of time less
than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or a drive-in theater
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used regularly and routinely for
presenting motion pictures having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   BODY SHOP or MODEL STUDIO. Any public or private establishment which
describes itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of
consideration or gratuity, figure models who display specified anatomical areas
are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed
or similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or gratuity, or
where for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude or semi-nude dancing,
readings, counseling sessions, body painting and other activities that present
materials distinguished or characterized by all emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas are provided for observation by or communication to persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
   BUILDING STRUCTURE. Any structure or group of structures housing two or more
businesses which share a common entry, exit, wall or frontage wall, including,
but not limited to, shopping centers, shopping plazas or shopping squares.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts
of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body or with the aid of
any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliances with or without such
supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, coils, powder,
creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly used in this
practice.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in the
definition of massage of this section; provided, however, that the term massage
establishment shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes or sanitaria; or
      (2)   Barber shops or cosmetology establishments, not operated as a home
occupation as defined under the city zoning regulations (
Chapter 153), where a barber or cosmetologist, holding a valid, unrevoked
license or certificate of registration issued by the state and a valid
unrevoked masseur or masseuse permit issued by the city, administers a massage
in conjunction with and incidental to the lawful performance of the barber’s or
cosmetologist’s particular profession or business; or allows a person, holding
a valid unrevoked masseur or masseuse permit issued by the city and working
under the direction of the barber or cosmetologist, to administer a massage in
conjunction with and incidental to the lawful performance of the barber’s or
cosmetologist’s particular profession or business.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts that are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated display of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.03 ADULT USES ENUMERATED.
   The following shall be considered adult uses for the purpose of this
chapter:
   (A)   Adult book store;
   (B)   Adult device store;
   (C)   Adult entertainment cabaret;
   (D)   Adult motel;
   (E)   Adult mini motion picture theater;
   (F)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (G)   Body shop or model studio; and
   (H)   Massage establishment.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.04 LIMITATIONS ON ADULT USES.
   Adult uses shall be permitted subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, an adult
use shall not feature a person who knowingly or intentionally, in a public
place:
      (1)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Engages in deviate sexual conduct; or
      (3)   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   All adult uses shall be located only in industrial zoning districts,
and within such districts an adult use shall not be located within 1,000 feet
of another pre-existing adult use.
   (C)   An adult use shall not be located within 1,000 feet of a preexisting
school or place of worship.
   (D)   The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of
an adult use business is prohibited unless the adult use business has a liquor
license issued by the city.
   (E)   An adult use shall not be located in a building structure, which
contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   Any adult use doing business at the time this chapter takes effect
shall have one year from the effective date hereof to comply with the
provisions of divisions (A) through (E) above.
   (G)   Any adult use doing business at the time this chapter takes effect
shall have 30 days from the effective date hereof for the issuance of an adult
use license.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.05 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property
line of the lot or parcel containing the adult use to the property line of the
lot or parcel containing the nearest adult use, school, place of worship or
district zoned for residential use.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.06 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises
in the city, the operation of an adult use as herein defined without first
having obtained a separate license for such adult use from the Mayor and City
Council.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct an adult
use shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the City Clerk upon
a form provided by the city and pay a non- refundable filing fee of $1,000 to
the City Clerk, who shall issue a receipt which shall be attached to the
application.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receiving the application, the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant that his or her application is granted, denied or held for
further investigation. Such additional investigation shall not exceed an
additional 30 days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the
conclusion of such additional investigation, the City Clerk shall advise the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied. Whenever an
application is denied or held for further investigation, the City Clerk shall
advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for such action.
   (D)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding
said application, or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
inspection or investigation required by this chapter, shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that he or she is ineligible for such license and
shall be grounds for denial thereof.
   (E)   An applicant for a license shall furnish the following information
under oath:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is not an
individual but is a corporation or partnership, the applicant shall also
furnish the names and addresses of all directors, officers and any stockholders
holding more than 5% of the stock of a corporate applicant and all partners and
limited partners of a partnership or limited partnership. In the case of any
other form of entity, the applicant shall disclose such information for all
persons controlling more than 5% of the voting rights of said entity as well as
those exercising direct managerial control over such entity;
      (2)   Written proof that the individuals listed pursuant to division (E)
(1) above are at least 18 years of age; and
      (3)   Location of where the adult business is to be operated.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 ISSUANCE AND TERM OF LICENSE.
   The Mayor and City Council shall issue a license to maintain, operate or
conduct an adult use, unless it finds:
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years or under any legal
disability;
   (B)   The location where the adult business is proposed to be operated does
not comply with the limitations set forth in this chapter; and/or
   (C)   Every adult use license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate
at the expiration of one year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued for an adult use may be revoked or suspended by the
Mayor and City Council if it finds:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
regulating adult uses; or
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his or her agents,
servants and employees; provided, however, that in the case of a first offense
by a licensee where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty
shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the city finds that the licensee
had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and could not by the
exercise of due diligence have had such actual or constructive knowledge.
   (C)   The city, before revoking or suspending any license, shall give the
licensee at least ten days’ written notice of the charges against him or her.
   (D)   The licensee may, within five days of receipt of said notice, request
a public hearing at which time the licensee may present evidence bearing upon
the decision.
   (E)   Any notice to licensee may be delivered personally to the licensee or
be posted on the premises where the adult use is located.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.09 EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   No adult use shall be conducted in a manner that permits the observation of
any material depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas by display, decoration, sign, show window or
other opening from any public way or from any property not registered in the
license as the location where the adult use is to be operated.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.10 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within
the premises where the adult use is operated so that same may be readily seen
by persons entering the premises.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.11 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER AGE OF 18 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any adult use licensee or his or her manager or
employees to employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is
not at least 18 years of age.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES.
   No licensee or any other officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit
any other person to engage in any activity in or about the licensed premises
which is prohibited by an ordinance of the city or laws of the state, or of the
United States.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be punished by a fine
of $750.
(Ord. 2011-6, passed 7-11-2011)
CHAPTER 114: LIQUOR
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application
   
114.04   Restriction on licenses
   
114.05   Terms of license
   
114.06   Examination of applicant
   
114.07   Classification; fees
   
114.08   Disposition of fees
   
114.09   Insurance required
   
114.10   Approval or rejection of application
   
114.11   Record
   
114.12   Transfer of license
   
114.13   Change of location
   
114.14   Renewal of license
   
114.15   Peddling
   
114.16   Sanitary conditions
   
114.17   Closing hours
   
114.18   Employment
   
114.19   Minors; sale to
   
114.20   Live entertainment
   
114.21   Inspections
   
114.22   Gambling
   
114.23   Sale to intoxicated persons; habitual drunkards
   
114.24   Revocation; suspension
   
114.25   Public drinking
   
114.26   Effective date
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing
more than one-half of 1% of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage
purposes.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale and consumption of alcoholic liquors which conforms to the definition of a
club, as provided by the statute.
   LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER. The Mayor shall be the Local Liquor Commissioner
and the terms “Mayor” and “Local Liquor Commissioner” shall be used
interchangeably in this chapter.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION.
   Application for such licenses shall be made to the Local Liquor
Commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or
affidavit, and shall contain the following statements and information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the object for which
organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if more
than 5% of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee,
the name and address of such person;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   (D)   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
   (E)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
   (F)   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application;
   (G)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state or the ordinances of this city;
   (H)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor; and
   (I)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the law of the
state, or of the United States, or any ordinance of the city in the conduct of
his or her place of business.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.04 RESTRICTION ON LICENSES.
   No license of any kind issued by the State Commission or any local
commission shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the city in which the premises
covered by the license are located;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, if the Commissioner determines after investigation, that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political subdivision,
unless residency is required by local ordinance;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
   (K)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. to transact business in the
state;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this Act or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official, including the Mayor, Alderman or
member of the City Council, any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; or
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.05 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued hereunder shall be effective on the date of issuance and
shall terminate one year following the issuance thereof.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.06 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Local Liquor Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause to
be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
of this information in the performance of his or her duties, and for such
purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or her
agent to act on his or her behalf, as provided by statute.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.07 CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
   Such licenses shall be divided into the following classes:
   (A)   Class A: shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on and off the premises where sold and not for resale in any form.
The annual fee for such license shall be $600;
   (B)   Class B: shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine for
consumption, as well as retail sale of beer and wine not for consumption on the
premises specified. The license fee shall be $400;
   (C)   Class C: shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor to be issued
to a regularly organized club and said sales to be made only to members and
guests of the club. The annual fee for such license shall be $25;
   (D)   Class D: shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquors in sealed
packages, but not for consumption on the premises where sold. The annual
license fee shall be $600; and
   (E)   Class T: shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine only at any
stands, booths, tents, banquet, picnic, fair, game, bazaar or similar assembly.
Such temporary permits shall be only issued to a fraternal or benevolent,
charitable or religious organization organized not for pecuniary profit and
shall be for a period not to exceed three successive calendar days. No more
than two such temporary permits shall be granted to any such applicant in any
one year. The daily fee for such license shall be $10. No temporary license
shall be issued unless adequate trash receptacles are provided and sanitation
provisions are made. The applicant is responsible for control of litter and
other material during and after the event and in addition, the applicant is
responsible for demonstrating that adequate parking is available.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.08 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All such fees shall be paid to the City Clerk, at the time application is
made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if
the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the general
corporate fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the
Council by proper action.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.09 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with
the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, certifying that the applicant has in force and effect the
insurance in an amount as required by 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a). Failure to maintain
said insurance shall result in suspension or revocation of said license.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.10 APPROVAL OR REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   The Local Liquor Commissioner shall investigate the statements in each
application, and within 30 days after such application has been made, the Local
Liquor Commissioner shall either approve or reject such applications.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.11 RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall keep a complete record of all such licenses issued and
shall furnish the Chief of Police with a copy thereof; upon revocation or
suspension of any license the City Clerk shall immediately give written notice
thereof to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, provided that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.13 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in
the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only when and upon the written permit to make such change shall be
issued by the Local Liquor Commissioner. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is in compliance with the provisions
and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.14 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided that they are then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose. All
applications for renewal of licenses shall be referred by the City Clerk to the
Local Liquor Commissioner, as in the case of application for original licenses,
and the procedure for renewal thereof shall be as in the case of application
for original licenses.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.15 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with the
ordinances, statutes and regulations regulating the condition of premises used
for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.17 CLOSING HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail, or to give away,
in or upon any licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor between the hours of:
12:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Monday through Friday, 1:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on
Saturday and Sunday; provided further, that no alcoholic liquor shall be served
to any patrons 15 minutes prior to the closing of said premises. For all Class
A, B, C and T license holders, it shall be unlawful to keep open for business
or to admit the public to, or permit the public to remain within, or to permit
the consumption of alcoholic liquor in or upon any premises in which alcoholic
liquor is sold at retail during the hours within which the sale of such liquor
is prohibited. Class D license holders may be open for business but may not
sell alcoholic liquor during the prohibited hours.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.18 EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   No person having a local license issued under this chapter shall
employ anyone under the age of 18 to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No licensee under this chapter shall employ or permit any person under
the age of 18 to act as an entertainer.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.19 MINORS; SALE TO.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the
city where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (C)   In every tavern or other place in the city where alcoholic liquor is
sold there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed card
which shall be supplied by the City Clerk and which shall read substantially as
follows:
Warning to Minors
You are subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500 under the
ordinance of the city
if you purchase alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of
purchasing
or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
   (D)   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Local Liquor
Commissioner may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer’s license for any
violation of division (C) above.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor
child of which he or she may be the parent or guardian to violate any of the
provisions of this section.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
minor.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.20 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to provide live entertainment and/or live music
in an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises, unless:
      (1)   The proprietor of the establishment personally requests a permit
form from the City Clerk; and
      (2)   Approval is given to the request for live entertainment and/or live
music at least five days prior to the planned event.
   (B)   All applications for live music and/or entertainment permits must
recite on the application whether they are for outdoor or indoor events.
Approval of indoor events shall be made by the City Clerk and Chief of Police
and approval for outdoor events shall be made by the City Council.
   (C)   INDOOR EVENTS are defined as those events which are contained within
permanent buildings whereby the sound will be contained within permanent
buildings whereby sound will be contained by the roof and walls of said
building so as not to pass across the boundaries of said real estate into
residential and adjoining real property areas.
   (D)   OUTDOOR EVENTS shall be defined as all entertainment which is located
on open grounds, parks, bandstands or structures which are partially open to
the outdoors where sound can be transmitted without structural impediments.
   (E)   No permits granting live entertainment and/or live music shall be
issued granting the playing of outside live music after the hours of 11:00
p.m., Sunday through Thursday, inclusive, nor later than 12:00 p.m. Friday and
Saturday, inclusive.
   (F)   If any premises have recorded music which can be heard off said
premises, that this shall also constitute a violation under this chapter after
the hours enumerated above.
   (G)   This chapter shall not apply to private residences, churches and
school related activities.
   (H)   Upon application to the City Council, different types of permits may
be granted for special events provided that all such licenses and permits shall
be issued uniformly to applicants applying therefore.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.21 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of any police
officer, the Health Officer or Mayor, for the purpose of making an inspection
of such premises, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.22 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any gambling on any premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor unless such gambling is licensed by the state, per 230 ILCS 40
of the Video Gaming Act.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.23 SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS; HABITUAL DRUNKARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license to
sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person or to any
person known to him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift or insane,
feeble-minded distracted person.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.24 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   The Local Liquor Commissioner may suspend for not more than 30 days or
revoke for cause any liquor dealer’s license for any violation of any provision
of this chapter, or for any violation of any state law pertaining to the sale
of alcoholic liquor, as provided by law, or permitting any illegal, disorderly
or immoral practices upon licensed premises.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 114.25 PUBLIC DRINKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink beer, wine or other alcoholic
beverages, or possess said beverage except in the original package and with the
seal unbroken, upon any public street, sidewalk, public way, park, parking lot
or other public place in the city. Said ordinance shall be published in all
establishments in the city where alcoholic liquor is sold, and shall be
displayed at all times in a prominent location near the exits of said
establishments with a printed sign which shall be supplied by the city.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall become effective on the February 8, 2016, and shall
supersede and repeal the provisions concerning alcoholic liquor contained in
the municipal code of the city, including all of the provisions passed prior to
and after this date.
   (B)   If any section of this code be deemed unconstitutional, that it shall
in no way alter the legal effect of the remaining sections of said code, and
where not in conflict, said ordinance shall also adopt by reference all
applicable sections of the ILCS 235, of the Liquor Control Act in effect as of
the date of passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Prohibited businesses
   
115.04   Public nuisance declared
   
115.05   Effective date
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
115.15   Tax imposed; collection by retailers
 
   
115.99   Penalty
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City of Lacon is an Illinois municipality in accordance with the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
   (B)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, Public Act 101-0027, which provides that the
city has the authority to prohibit adult-use cannabis business establishments.
   (C)   The city has determined that the operation of cannabis business
establishments would present adverse impacts upon the health, safety and
welfare of the residents, and impose additional costs, burdens and impacts upon
law enforcement and regulatory operations of the city.
   (D)   The city hereby adopts this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-13-2019)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. An individual over the age of 21 years.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101 as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027) as it may be amended from time-to-time
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027) as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   CANNABIS.
      (1)   CANNABIS means marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the
plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation
of the plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
other naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber,
oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. (P.A. 101-0027)
      (2)   CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized
under the State of Illinois Industrial Hemp Act (505 ILCS 89).
      (3)   CANNABIS also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
(P.A. 101-0027).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, business trust, trust, estate,
club, society, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent, or any other entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-13-2019)
§ 115.03 PROHIBITED BUSINESSES.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the City of Lacon. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the city of any of the
following:
   (A)   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower;
   (B)   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center;
   (C)   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization;
   (D)   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser;
   (E)   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor;
   (F)   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-13-2019)
§ 115.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the city
in violation of the provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-13-2019)
§ 115.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage,
approval, and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
   (B)   If any provision of this subchapter or the application of any
provision of this subchapter is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
such occurrence shall not affect other provisions of this subchapter or their
application, that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid
provision or its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or
application of such provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-13-2019)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 115.15 TAX IMPOSED; COLLECTION BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City of Lacon at the rate
of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      (2)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Severability. If any provision of this section, or the application of
any provision of this section, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
such occurrence shall not affect other provisions of this section, or their
application, that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid
provision or its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or
application of such provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this
section.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and approval and publication as required by law,
provided, however, that the tax provided for herein shall take effect for all
sales on or after the first day of January, 2020.
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 8-14-2019)
Editor’s note:
   65 ILCS 5/8-11-22 was repealed by P.A. 101-604, eff. 12-13-19.
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates any provision of §§
115.01 through
115.04 shall be punished by a fine not less than $250 for a first offense in
any 12-month period, a fine of not less than $500 for a second offense within
any period, and a fine of not less than $750 for a third offense and all
subsequent offenses within any 12-month period.
   (B)   Each day any subsequent violation of those sections shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   This penalty shall be in addition to the costs provided for the
abatement of nuisances by the city and in addition to any and all other
remedies which may be available to the city under this code or State of
Illinois statutes.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 11-13-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [RESERVED]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION CODE
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES DEPLOYMENT CODE
      
155.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND EQUIPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building permits
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Nuisances
   
150.17   Abatement
   
150.18   Demolition
   
150.19   Unknown owners
   
150.20   Alternative action
Lot and Building Numbering
   
150.35   Purpose
   
150.36   Definitions
   
150.37   Lot and building numbering required
   
150.38   Duty of City Clerk
   
150.39   Numbers to be clearly visible and permanently affixed
   
150.40   Time for compliance
   
150.41   Assignment of numbers
   
150.42   Even, odd numbers
   
150.43   Same numbers prohibited
   
150.44   Powers of the Zoning Officer
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Chapter 151
   Signs and Awnings, see
Chapter 94
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 92
   Subdivision Code, see
Chapter 152
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish any use of a building structure or land,
either by itself or in addition to another use, or to erect a new building or
structure, or part thereof, or to re-build, structurally alter, add to or re-
locate any building or structure, or part thereof, without obtaining a permit
from the Zoning Enforcing Officer in accordance with this chapter and “The City
of Lacon, Illinois, Zoning Ordinance” as amended.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any walled or roofed structure, including mobile homes, commercial
establishments, dwellings and any accessory structures.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any of the following
defects or is in any of the following conditions that shall be deemed unsafe:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide a
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic for all persons housed
or assembled therein who would be required to or might use such door, aisle,
passageway, stairway or other means of exit;
      (2)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by wind, flood, fire
or any other cause in such a manner that the structural strength or stability
thereof is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than
the minimum requirements of this subchapter;
      (3)   Whenever any building or structure or any part thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay or because of the removal or movement of
some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such
building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to partially or
completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or underpinning is
likely to fall or give way;
      (4)   Whenever, for any reason whatsoever, the building or structure or
any portion thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (5)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated, as to become an
attractive nuisance to children who might play in or about the building or
structure to their danger;
      (6)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged or has
become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to afford a harbor for vagrants, or as
to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance or
unlawful acts;
      (7)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay or damage is unsanitary or
unfit for human habitation and is likely to work injury to the health, safety
or general welfare of those living within;
      (8)   Whenever any building shall become vacant, dilapidated or open at
door or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers; or
      (9)   Whenever any unoccupied building or structure is deemed a nuisance
and the structure or building has been secured by the owner or his or her
agents by covering up the windows and exits with lumber or materials other than
glazing materials for a period of 30 days or more, thereby causing a blighting
influence on a neighborhood.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 150.16 NUISANCES.
   Any such dangerous building within the terms of this subchapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the
existence of any dangerous building in the city; and it shall be unlawful for
the owner, occupant or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit
the same to remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or
permit it to be occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 ABATEMENT
   (A)   Whenever a Building Inspector, the Fire Marshal, the Health Inspector
or any licensed structural engineer shall find that any building or structure
in the city is a dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement
to this effect with the City Clerk.
      (1)   The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be served upon
the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by registered mail or
by personal service.
      (2)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be
in dangerous condition, and that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and that
the condition must be remedied at once.
      (3)   Such notice may be in the following form:
      “To _____________(owner-occupant of the premises)__________ of the
premises known and described as ________________. You are hereby notified that
________(describe building)_______ on the premises above described has been
declared to be a nuisance and a dangerous building after inspection by
___________. You must remedy this condition or demolish the building
immediately or the city will proceed to do so.”
   (B)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith within
30 days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by personal
service or by registered mail, the city may proceed, upon order of the Mayor
and City Council, to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 150.18 DEMOLITION.
   The Superintendent of Public Works or his or her designate is hereby
authorized, with the consent and approval of the City Council, to demolish,
repair or cause the demolition or repair of dangerous and unsafe buildings,
uncompleted buildings or abandoned buildings within the city limits in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 150.19 UNKNOWN OWNERS.
   If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown, or if his or her address
is unknown, service of any notice provided for in this subchapter may be made
by posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing one time a copy
thereof in a newspaper published within the municipality.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 150.20 ALTERNATIVE ACTION.
   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this subchapter,
the Fire Marshal or licensed structural engineer may make the investigations
authorized by the statute found in ILCS, in force and effect. If such officer
shall find that any building or structure is so occupied or situated as to
endanger persons or property, or by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of
repair or for any other cause is especially liable to fire, or is liable to
cause injury by collapsing or otherwise, he or she shall order the dangerous
condition removed or remedied, and shall so notify the owner or occupant of the
premises. Service of such notice may be in person or by registered mail, and
any person so notified may appeal from the decision of such officer in the
manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011)
LOT AND BUILDING NUMBERING
§ 150.35 PURPOSE.
   Occupied buildings identified with street numbers benefit all citizens;
especially when emergencies occur involving fire, personal injury, loss of life
and property damage.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.36 DEFINITIONS.
   Buildings and structures as used in this subchapter refer to primary
business buildings, commercial buildings, single-family dwellings or multi-
family dwellings. Each single-family dwelling must be numbered. One permanent
building on a single lot must have number visible. Auxiliary buildings on the
same lot with a dwelling, business building or commercial building are exempt.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.37 LOT AND BUILDING NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   All lots, buildings and structures in the city shall be numbered in
accordance with the city numbering chart.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.38 DUTY OF CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall keep the city numbering chart showing the property
street number of every lot in the city. This chart shall be open to inspection
during regular business hours.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.39 NUMBERS TO BE CLEARLY VISIBLE AND PERMANENTLY AFFIXED.
   It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every residence,
building or other structure in the city to have placed thereon, in a place
visible from the street, figures at least three inches high, showing the
address number of the residence, building or other structure thereon. Address
numbers may be permanently affixed to residence, building, mailbox or post, by
a sign or by painting them thereon, nearest to the building’s side facing the
street which is identified in the city numbering chart.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.40 TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   Any person, firm or corporation shall have a period of six months from the
effective date of this subchapter to comply for existing structures; new
construction to comply immediately upon completion or occupancy; whichever is
first.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.41 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   The Zoning Officer shall assign to each lot, building or other structure its
proper number and shall inform the owner in possession of the premises as to
the number thereof at any time upon request.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.42 EVEN, ODD NUMBERS.
   Fifth Street shall be the base for north and south numbers. All even numbers
in the numbering system of the city shall be assigned on the east and south
sides of the streets, and all odd numbers shall be assigned on the west and
north sides of the streets.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.43 SAME NUMBERS PROHIBITED.
   No two lots, buildings or other structures shall have the same address.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.44 POWERS OF THE ZONING OFFICER.
   If the Zoning Officer discovers that any lot, building or other structure is
in violation of the provisions provided above, he or she shall have the power
to mandate a change of address so that the numbering is in compliance with this
subchapter. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-80-18, the corporate authority shall
notify the owner of the property sought to be changed of its new address;
however, the change in the numbering of houses, buildings or other structures
shall not take effect until 30 days after the election authorities having
jurisdiction in the area in which such numbering is changed and the post office
branch serving that area have been notified by the corporate authority
initiating such action of the change in writing by certified or registered
mail.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.01,
150.15 through
150.20, or permitting any dangerous building or any building or structure to
remain in a dangerous condition shall be fined $750 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
150.35 through
150.44, if after receiving written notice to do so from the Clerk, shall
continue in his or her failure to comply shall be fined $5 for each day during
or on which a failure to so comply continues.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 7-11-2011; Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Base flood elevation
   
151.04   Duties of the responsible official
   
151.05   Development permit
   
151.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
151.07   Protecting buildings
   
151.08   Subdivision requirements
   
151.09   Public health and other standards
   
151.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
151.11   Variances
   
151.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-
30-8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The BASE
FLOOD elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the
city, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the
city are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 0168C and 0170C of the
county-wide flood insurance rate map, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated November 4, 2010. FLOODPLAIN also includes those
areas of known flooding as identified by the community. The FLOODPLAINS of
those parts of unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city are generally
identified as such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for the county by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated November 4, 2010.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Illinois River and unnamed
creek/tributary lying approximately 0.5 miles south of Illinois State Route 17
shall be as delineated on the county-wide flood insurance rate map of the
county prepared by FEMA and dated November 4, 2010. The FLOODWAYS for each of
the remaining floodplains of the city shall be according to the best data
available from the federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; and/or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
151.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and/or
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part oaf a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes “repetitive
loss buildings” (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below.
   (B)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the existing
data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for approval prior
to any development of the site.
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Illinois River and
unnamed creek/tributary located approximately 0.5 miles south of Illinois State
Route 17 shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the county-
wide flood insurance study of the county, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency on November 4, 2010.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county-
wide flood insurance rate map.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as a “A Zone” on the county-wide flood insurance rate map shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or sources. Should no
other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the applicant to
determine base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated November 4, 2010.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF THE RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The City Zoning Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the City Zoning Officer shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
151.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
151.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
151.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
151.09;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
151.99 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the City Zoning Officer.
   (B)   The City Zoning Officer shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.07; and
         (e)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the City
Zoning Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The City Zoning Officer shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance
rate map identification.
      (4)   The City Zoning Officer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
City Zoning Officer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state
and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the county-wide flood insurance rate map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety.
   (B)   The following specific development activities shall be considered as
meeting this requirement.
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide Permit Number 2.
         (a)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 feet.
         (b)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half feet at a point 1,000 feet upstream of
the proposed structure.
         (c)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         (d)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging or relocating the existing channel.
         (e)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR permit.
         (f)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 3: the permit is only applicable when dead men,
pier cells or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers.
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4.
         (a)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         (b)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         (c)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         (d)   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         (e)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades
and re-vegetated.
         (f)   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety
Code and federal requirements must be met.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5.
         (a)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway
and no more than one-quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend
beyond the navigational limited established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers.
         (b)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet.
         (c)   For L-Shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline
frontage nor 50 feet.
         (d)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected
property line.
         (e)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         (f)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         (g)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         (h)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         (i)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which
will minimize obstruction to flow.
         (j)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR State- wide Permit Number 6; the following activities (not
involving fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit.
         (a)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
         (b)   The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar
structures.
         (c)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar structures.
         (d)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports.
         (e)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70
square feet in size, nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such
building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
         (f)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7.
         (a)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         (b)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour
velocity of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the
use of riprap or other design measures.
         (c)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         (d)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR State- wide Permit Number 8.
         (a)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of
the river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         (b)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (c)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5), shall
be provided with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to be
crossed.
         (d)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to
the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9.
         (a)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban
areas are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban).
         (b)   In addition to the materials listed in division (B)(8)(a) above,
other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas provided
all other conditions of this permit are met.
         (c)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the Environmental Protections Act (415 ILCS 5).
         (d)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet.
         (e)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         (f)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         (g)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of
the bank.
         (h)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site. For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe
of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10%, nor the volume of
material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream bank or
shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to lessen the
quantity of material required.
         (i)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         (j)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         (k)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            1.   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
            2.   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
         (l)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10.
         (a)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with
the requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         (b)   The principle structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         (c)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square
feet in size and must not deflect flood waters onto another property.
         (d)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         (e)   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within 50 feet of the
bank of the stream channel.
         (f)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         (g)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing
structure shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition
must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         (h)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11.
         (a)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed 1,000 feet.
         (b)   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel;
         (c)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and down stream of the site.
         (d)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            1.   Removed from the floodway;
            2.   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials would
be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of streambank;
            3.   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area
such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            4.   Used to stabilize and existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            5.   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
Department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            6.   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         (e)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12.
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            1.   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
            2.   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         (c)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         (d)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (Minor Shoreline, channel and
Streambank Protection Activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities).
         (e)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13.
         (a)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         (b)   The term “temporary” shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         (d)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         (e)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or
stream channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents
that the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition
Number 3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a
minimum, confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the
backwater induced by the temporary structure.
         (f)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         (g)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         (h)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements; other development activities not listed in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(12) above may be permitted only if:
         (a)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
         (b)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
151.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation; this building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; or
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.02.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following.
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
         (e)   It shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from
or onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water- tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above,
unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures, such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet.
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model.
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage of shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet.
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
151.06 and
151.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
151.06 and
151.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
151.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access
routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be
provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the City Council shall notify adjacent communities in
writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant’s
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
151.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
151.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in “historic
structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
151.06 and
151.07, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to
achieve eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program, nor does this
chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the City Zoning
Officer may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter
exists.
   (B)   The City Zoning Officer shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
      (1)   If such owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the
violation:
         (a)   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not less than $750 for each offense;
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
         (d)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
      (2)   The City Zoning Officer shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   The City Zoning Officer is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   (D)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the City Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice of
such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      (1)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
   (E)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 5-9-2011)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Procedure
   
152.03   Recording
   
152.04   Engineer
   
152.05   Design standards
   
152.06   Required improvements
   
152.07   Plats; plans; data; approval
   
152.08   Fees
   
152.09   Variances
   
152.10   Administration
   
152.11   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ENGINEER. A qualified person appointed by the Mayor to act in the
capacity of City Engineer.
   STREETS and ALLEYS.  STREET means a way for vehicular traffic, whether
designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, thru-way, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place or however otherwise designated. The Plat Officer shall
determine in which classification streets in a proposed subdivision shall fall.
      (1)   Arterial streets and highways are those which are used primarily
for fast or heavy traffic.
      (2)   Collector streets are those which carry traffic from minor streets
to the major system of arterial streets and highways, including the principal
entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation
within such a development.
      (3)   Minor streets are those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
      (4)   Marginal access streets are minor streets which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways, and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (5)   Alleys are minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
      (6)   Pedestrian crosswalks are easements to the public for the purpose
of foot traffic. Each adjacent lot shall extend to the center of the required
crosswalk, which shall be provided with an all-weather surface, no less than
five feet in total width, except as required in §
152.05(D)(2). Minimum side yard requirements shall be increased on each
adjacent lot to the width that lot projects into the easement.
   SUBDIVISION. 
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or, if a new
street is involved, any division of a parcel of land provided that, a division
of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five acres or more
and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION.
      (2)   The term includes RE-SUBDIVISION, provided that the division of not
more than five lots or tracts of record into not more than three lots, and not
involving a new street, shall be eligible for record without approval of the
City Council, but with the written approval of the Plat Approval Officer, who
shall first determine that the new lots comply with the area regulations and
other requirements, including sanitation, of the zoning ordinance of the city.
      (3)   When appropriate to the context, the term SUBDIVISION shall relate
to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.02 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is hereby required that no map, plat or subdivision of any block,
lot or sub-lot, or any part thereof, or any piece or parcel of land within the
city, or in contiguous territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits, shall be entitled to record in the county, or have any
validity until it has been approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Each person, firm or corporation who seeks the Council’s approval of a
map, plat or subdivision shall follow the procedure herein outlined.
      (1)   Pre-application procedure.
         (a)   Previous to the filing of an application for conditional
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the Plat
Officer plans and data as specified in §
152.07. This step does not require formal application, fee or filing of the
plat.
         (b)   The purpose of the “pre-application procedure” is to afford the
subdivider an opportunity to avail himself or herself of the advice and
assistance of the Plan Commission, and to consult early and informally with the
Commission staff before preparation of the preliminary plat and before formal
application for its approval, in order to save time and money and to make the
most of his or her opportunities.
            1.   The subdivider should also consult with parties potentially
interested with him or her or with the ultimate users of the development, such
as lending and mortgage insurance institutions, with a view to reaching at this
initial stage, firm conclusions regarding what part of the market demand should
be served, the suitability of the location of the proposed subdivision, the
most advantageous subdivision plan, the arrangement of streets, lots and other
features of the proposed development
            2.   Here is where the die is cast; opportunities are assured or
lost. Good counsel on all parts of the problem is essential at this stage. The
subdivider is advised to engage a land planning specialist qualified to help
him or her resolve the major factors into a workable and profitable subdivision
plan.
         (c)   The Plat Officer shall submit the application to the Plan
Commission and within 31 days the Plan Commission shall inform the Plat Officer
that the plans and data as submitted or as modified do or do not meet the
objectives of these regulations. When the Plan Commission finds that the plans
and data do not meet the objectives of these regulations, it shall express its
reasons therefor in its communication to the Plat Officer.
      (2)   Procedure for conditional approval of preliminary plat.
         (a)   On reaching conclusions informally as recommended in division
(B)(1) above regarding his or her general program and objectives the subdivider
shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with improvement plans
and other supplementary material as specified in §
152.07.
         (b)   Four copies of the preliminary plat and supplementary material
specified shall be submitted to the Plat Officer with written application for
conditional approval at least ten days prior to the meeting at which it is to
be considered.
         (c)   Following review by the Plan Commission of the preliminary plat
and other material submitted for conformity thereof to these regulations; and
negotiations with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and
extent of improvements to be made by him or her, the Plat Officer shall, within
40 days, act thereon as submitted, or modified, and if approved, the Plat
Officer shall express his or her approval as conditional approval and state the
condition of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, shall express his or her
disapproval and his or her reasons therefor.
         (d)   The action of the Plat Officer shall be noted on two copies of
the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the other retained by the Plat
Officer.
         (e)   Conditional approval of the preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat. Rather it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the
preparation of the final flat, which will be submitted for approval of the City
Council, and for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements of these
regulations and the conditions of the conditional approval, if any.
         (f)   If the Plat Officer rejects the preliminary plat, the owner
shall have the right to request that the Plat Officer submit the preliminary
plat to the City Council for its approval together with a summary of his or her
action in respect thereto. If the City Council approves the plat, then the Plat
Officer shall be directed to approve the preliminary plat.
         (g)   Preliminary approval shall confer upon the subdivider the right
for a two-year period from the date of approval that the general terms and
conditions under which the preliminary approval was granted will not be
changed.
      (3)   Procedure for approval of final plat.
         (a)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary
plat as approved, and, if desired by the subdivides it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which he or she proposes to record and
develop at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all
requirements of these regulations.
         (b)   Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted in
writing to the Plat Officer, who in turn shall transmit the same to the Plan
Commission at least 15 days prior to the meeting at which it is to, be
considered by the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall inform the Plat
Officer of its recommendations.
         (c)   Four copies of the final plat and other exhibits required for
approval shall be prepared as specified in §
152.07, and shall be submitted to the Plat Officer within 12 months after
approval of of the preliminary plat; otherwise such approval shall become null
and void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the Plat
Officer.
         (d)   The final plat shall bear the following certificate:
         State of Illinois      ) ss
         County of Marshall      )
         I, ______________________, Clerk of the City of Lacon, Marshall
County, Illinois, do hereby certify that this plat was duly approved and
accepted by the Mayor and City Council at a meeting held on the _____________
day of ________________________, 20_____.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.03 RECORDING.
   Within 60 days after the approval of the final plat by the City Council,
said plat shall be filed with the County Recorder, and if not so filed, shall
have no validity and shall not be recorded without re- certification by the
City Clerk and re-approval.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.04 ENGINEER.
   The preliminary and final plat and the data required by these regulations
shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, who shall also make an estimate of
the probable expenditures necessary to enable the person seeking the Council’s
approval of such map, plat or subdivision to conform with the standards of
construction established in this chapter. Each person who seeks the Council’s
approval of map, plat or subdivision shall, at the time of the filing with the
Plat Officer of the final plat, post a good and sufficient bond with the City
Clerk, in a penal sum sufficient to cover such estimate of expenditures made by
the existing engineer. The bond shall be conditioned upon faithful adherence to
the rules and regulations promulgated herein, and shall be maintained until the
development is complete.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.05 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
all streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by
such streets.
      (2)   The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
         (a)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding area; or
         (b)   Meet a particular situation where topographical or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the Plat Officer may require marginal access streets reverse
frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the
rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other treatment
as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to
afford separation of through and local traffic.
      (5)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, the Plat Officer may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in
appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard
for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
      (6)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited,
except where their control is definitely placed in the city under conditions
approved by the Plat Officer.
      (7)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
      (8)   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between
reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
      (9)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than 100 feet for minor
and collector streets, and of such greater radii as the Plat Officer shall
determine for special cases.
      (10)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 60
degrees.
      (11)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a
radius of 15 feet, or of a greater radius where the Plat Officer may deem it
necessary. The Plat Officer may permit comparable cutoffs or chords in place of
rounded corners. Surface grading at street intersections shall be such as to
permit unobstructed vision within the sight triangle formed by the center of
intersection and two points 75 feet distant, each point being on the centerline
of an intersecting street.
      (12)   Minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
 
Street Type                    Right-of-Way (in feet)
Arterial                       As required by State Highway Department
Collector                      60
Minor, for multiple residences 60
Minor for other residences     50
Marginal access                40
 
      (13)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with other requirements
of these regulations; and where the Plat Officer finds it will be practicable
to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is
subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
      (14)   Dead-end streets, designed to be so permanently shall not be
longer than 500 feet, and shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-
around having an outside roadway diameter of at least 80 feet, and a street
property line diameter of at least 100 feet.
      (15)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the
approval of the Plat Officer.
      (16)   No street grade shall be less than 0.25%.
      (17)   All new subdivisions along state and county highways shall be
arranged to provide access to such highways at intervals not less than 1,320
feet, except where impractical or impossible due to existing property divisions
or topography. Also, roads and streets within such subdivisions shall be
arranged to permit access to adjacent future subdivisions without encroachment
upon this regulation.
   (B)   Alleys.
      (1)   The minimum width of an alley, if provided, shall be 16 feet.
      (2)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      (3)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turn around facilities at the end,
as determined by the Plat Officer.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall
be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet wide.
Easements for street lights shall be located as approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose.
   (D)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to:
         (a)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
         (b)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
         (c)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
         (d)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      (2)   Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, shall be
required where deemed essential to provide circulations, or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping center, transportation and other community facilities.
   (E)   Lots.
      (1)   Building setback lines shall be established on all lots, and the
minimum building setback line shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision and for type of development and use contemplated; provided,
however, that they shall not be less than the standards established by the
zoning ordinance of the city.
      (2)   The areas of all lots shall not be less than the standards for
corresponding uses established by the zoning ordinance of the city, and:
         (a)   All lots shall be provided with service to public sanitary sewer
or approved sanitary disposal facilities as set forth in §
152.06(B)(2)(b)2.; and
         (b)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for
commercial and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-
street service and parking facilities required by the type of use and
development contemplated, as required by the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
      (4)   The subdividing of the land for residential use shall be such as to
provide, by means of a public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an
existing public street.
      (5)   Double frontage, and reverse frontage lots, should be avoided
except where essential to provide separation of residential development from
traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet, across which
there shall be no right-of-access, shall be provided along the line of lots
abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
      (6)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right, angles or radial to
street lines.
   (F)   Public sites and open spaces.
      (1)   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use
desirable for the public interest is located in whole or in part in a
subdivision, the City Council may require the dedication of such area within
the subdivision in those cases in which it deems such requirements to be
reasonable. Fair and just remuneration shall be paid to the subdivider for the
land dedicated for this purpose.
      (2)   Where deemed essential by the City Council, upon consideration of
the particular type of development proposed in the subdivision, and especially
in large scale neighborhood unit developments, the City Council may require the
reservation for the public use of such other areas or sites of a character,
extent and location suitable to the needs created by such development for
schools, parks and other neighborhood purposes. The subdivider shall be paid
fair and just remuneration for the land used for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.06 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets, and at intermediate points as shall be
required by the Plat Officer. Permanent monuments erected in such subdivisions
shall be of galvanized iron pipe not less than one inch in diameter and 24
inches in length; or if stone or concrete, shall be not less than four inches
in diameter and 24 inches in length.
   (B)   Utility and street improvements.
      (1)   Utility, and street improvements shall be provided in each new
subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements described in the
following schedules.
      (2)   The standards and specifications for each general type of
development shall be:
         (a)   For business, industrial, institutional and similar types, as
determined by the City Council with the advice of the City Engineer;
         (b)   For residential types, in accordance with the following:
            1.   Within the corporate limits, and within one and one-half miles
beyond the corporate limits, public or private water supply per standards
approved by the City Engineer;
            2.   Within the corporate limits, and within one and one-half miles
beyond the corporate limits, public or private sanitary disposal facilities per
standards approved by the City Engineer. Stub-up lines shall be located at each
lot and shall extend at least one foot inside the property line and the curb
marked with the letter “S”;
            3.   Surface drainage in approved paved gutters and in piped
underground channels, the construction, capacity and flow of which are approved
by the City Engineer;
            4.   Street gradient and cross-section, per plans approved by the
City Engineer;
            5.   Pavement width:
               a.   Collector streets: 36 feet face to face of curbs; and
               b.   Minor streets: 26 feet.
            6.   Pavement type shall be either eight-inch monolithic concrete
per § 48, State Specifications, or any combination of the following bases and
surfaces:
               a.   Bases:
                  i.   Seven-inch gravel compacted, per § 29, State
Specifications;
                  ii.   Seven-inch crushed compacted stone, per § 30, State
Specifications;
                  iii.   Six-inch concrete, per § 32, State Specifications; and
                  iv.   Six and one-half-inch compacted soil cement.
               b.   Surfaces:
                  i.   Two-inch asphaltic concrete plant mixed, per § 43 or §
46, State Specifications; and
                  ii.   Two-inch bituminous machine mix, per § 40, State
Specifications.
            7.   Curb and/or gutter, if provided, of concrete, gradient and
cross-section as approved by City Engineer;
            8.   Street trees, if provided, location and type as approved by
the Plan Commission;
            9.   Planting strips, gradient, drainage and surface treatment, as
approved by City Engineer;
            10.   Street name signs at all intersections, conforming to
standard for the city;
            11.   Street numbering system as approved by City Council;
            12.   Alleys, when provided, paved full width with eight-inch
monolithic concrete per § 48, State Specifications; and
            13.   Sidewalks, when provided, shall be of monolithic concrete,
four inches in thickness, in location and with pitch, and surface as approved
by the City Engineer, with a required width of five feet on collector or
multiply-family residence streets, and four feet on single-family residence
streets.
         (c)   For low density residential types with individual lots,
averaging approximately 10,000 square feet of more, at the discretion of the
City Engineer:
            1.   The requirements of division (B)(2)(b)2., (B)(2)(b)3., (B)(2)
(b)5., (B)(2)(b)6., and (B)(2)(b)7. above may be waived or modified with the
substitution of the following:
               a.   Private sanitary disposal;
               b.   Surface drainage in swales and culverts;
               c.   Pavement width 18 feet; and
               d.   Eight-inch gravel or crushed stone pavement per § 36 State
Specifications.
            2.   Note: state spec referred to herein are the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, adopted January 2, 1958 by the
Division of Highways, Department of Public Works and Buildings, State of
Illinois.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.07 PLATS; PLANS; DATA; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Pre-application plane and data.
      (1)   General subdivision information shall describe or outline the
existing condition of the site and the proposed development as necessary to
supplement the drawings required below. This information may include data on
existing covenants, land characteristics and available community facilities and
utilities; and information describing the subdivision proposal, such as number
of residential lots, typical lot width and depth, price range, proposed
protective covenants and proposed utilities and street improvements.
      (2)   Location map shall show the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to existing community facilities which serve or influence it.
Include development name and location, existing main traffic arteries, title,
scale, north arrow and date.
      (3)   Sketch plan shall show in simple sketch form the proposed layout of
streets, lots and other features in relation to existing conditions. The sketch
plan maybe a free-hand pencil sketch, but shall include such data as the Plat
Officer determines is necessary for his or her consideration of the proposed
sketch plan.
   (B)   Plats and data for conditional approval.
      (1)   Topographic data required as a basis for the preliminary plat in
division (B)(2) below, shall include existing conditions as follows, except
when otherwise specified by the Plat Officer:
         (a)   Boundary lines: bearings and distances;
         (b)   Easements: location, width and purpose;
         (c)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: name and right-of-way
width and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; and legally
established centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts and the
like;
         (d)   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: location, size and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of
water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants/electric and telephone poles,
and street lights; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the
tract, indicate the direction and distance to, and sise of nearest ones,
showing invert elevation of sewers;
         (e)   Ground elevations on the tract, based on a datum plane approved
by the Plat Officer: for land that slopes less than approximately 2% show spot
elevations at all breaks in grade, along all drainage channels or swales, and
at selected points not more than 100 feet apart in all directions; for land
that slopes more than approximately 2% show contours with an interval of not
more than two feet;
         (f)   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the Plat
Officer: location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock
and ground water conditions; depth of ground water unless test pits are dry at
a depth of five feet; location and results of soil percolation tests, if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed in conformance with §
152.05(E)(2)(a);
         (g)   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, marshes, wooded
areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter, houses, barns,
shacks and other significant features;
         (h)   Other conditions on adjacent land: approximate directions and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name,
recordation date and number; and showing approximate percent built-up, typical
lot size and dwelling type;
         (i)   Zoning: on and adjacent to the tract;
         (j)   Proposed public improvements: highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract; and
         (k)   Title and certificates: present tract designation according to
official records in office of Recorder; title under which proposed subdivision
is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners, notation stating
acreage, scale; north arrow, datum, benchmarks, certification of registered
surveyor, date of survey.
      (2)   Preliminary plat shall be at a scale not smaller than 200 feet to
one inches. It shall show all existing conditions required above in division
(B)(1) above, and shall show all proposals including the following:
         (a)   Streets: names; right-of-way and pavement width; approximate
grades and gradients; similar data for alleys, if any;
         (b)   Other rights-of-way or easements; locations, width and purpose;
         (c)   Location of utilities, if not shown on other exhibits;
         (d)   Lot lines, lot numbers and block numbers;
         (e)   Sites, if any, to be dedicated for parks, playgrounds or other
public uses;
         (f)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other non-public uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings;
         (g)   Minimum building setback lines;
         (h)   Site data; including number of residential lots, typical lot
size, and acres in park and the like; and
         (i)   Title, scale, north arrow, and date.
      (3)   Other preliminary plans: when required by the Plat Officer, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground
surface and proposed street grades, including extensions for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision; typical cross-sections
of the proposed grading; roadway; and preliminary plan of proposed sanitary and
storm water sewers with grades and sizes indicated. All elevations shall be
based on a datum plane approved by the Plat Officer.
      (4)   Draft of restrictive covenants (if any) whereby the subdivider
proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the
proposed development.
   (C)   Plats and data for final approval.
      (1)   Final plat shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth at a scale of 200
feet equals one inch or larger.
         (a)   Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets accompanied
by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision.
         (b)   For large subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for
approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the Plat Officer.
         (c)   The final plat shall show the following:
            1.   Primary control points, approved by the Plat Officer or
descriptions and “ties”to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred;
            2.   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements
and other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other
sites; with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, and radii, arcs
and central angles of all curves. Reference to at least one previously
established section corner shall be given;
            3.   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-
way;
            4.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements;
            5.   Number to identify each lot or site;
            6.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated;
            7.   Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites;
            8.   Location and description of monuments;
            9.   Names of recorded owners of adjoining unplatted land;
            10.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted
land by record name, date and number;
            11.   Certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to accuracy
of survey and plat;
            12.   Certification of title showing that applicant is the
landowner;
            13.   Statement by owner dedicating streets, right-of-way and any
sites for public uses. A notary’s certificate is required;
            14.   Title, scale, north arrow and date; and
            15.   Certificate as given in §
152.02(B)(3)(d).
      (2)   Cross section and profiles of streets showing grades approved by
the City Engineer;
      (3)   A certificate by the City Engineer certifying that the subdivider
has complied with the schedule of minimum required utilities and street
improvements, §
152.06(B);
      (4)   Certificate by the Plat Officer certifying that he or she approved
the plat;
      (5)   Restrictive covenants (if any) in form for recording;
      (6)   Other data: such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or
deductions as may be required by the Plat Officer in the enforcement of these
regulations; and
      (7)   Prints: five black line prints of the final plat shall be furnished
by the subdivider to the Plat Officer for his or her records and for
distribution to appropriate county and city officials.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.08 FEES.
   A fee of $10 for each lot, sub-lot or tract of land shown upon a final map
shall be paid to the City Clerk; provided, however, that in no case shall the
minimum fee so paid to the City Clerk be less than $50 per map. In addition to
the fees set forth above, the owner of a subdivision shall reimburse the city
for all engineering expense of sewer and other plans, and for inspection of
construction of the facilities required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby reserves the authority to make variances or
changes as to any of the provisions herein contained, but any variances or
changes shall only be exercised upon written recommendation of the Plan
Commission which in turn shall make such recommendations upon written
recommendation of the Plat Officer, or upon unanimous motion.
   (B)   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by
the City Council in case of a plan and program for a complete community, or a
neighborhood unit. Such modification shall not be made until after written
recommendation by the Plan Commission, which recommendation may be given when
in the judgement of the Plan Commission the plan or program provides adequate
public spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air and
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also
provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to
and achievement of the plan.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The office of Plat Officer is hereby created in which is vested the
duty to administer and enforce all of the regulations of this chapter and such
related regulations as are assigned to that office by the City Council. That
officer is meant whenever in this chapter the term “Plat Officer” is used.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall
appoint as Plat Officer a person who is qualified by professional or practical
training and experience to conduct the affairs and carry out the duties of that
office.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter, the same being designated as the “Maps, Plats and Subdivision
Code of Lacon, Illinois and Contiguous Area”, shall take effect and be in full
force from and after its passage and as permitted by statute.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1960)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Establishment of districts
   
153.004   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.005   Transition zoning
   
153.006   Application of regulations
   
153.007   Nonconforming uses
   
153.008   Enforcement
   
153.009   Permits
   
153.010   Interpretation
   
153.011   Board of Appeals
   
153.012   Amendments
Residence Districts
   
153.025   Required conditions
   
153.026   R-1 One-Family Residential Districts
   
153.027   R-2 One-Family Residential Districts
   
153.028   R-2A Two-Family Residential Districts
   
153.029   R-3 Multiple-Family Residential Districts
   
153.030   R-4 Mobile Home, Trailer Court Districts
Commercial Districts
   
153.045   C-1 Local Retail Districts
   
153.046   C-2 General Retail Districts
   
153.047   C-3 Service Districts
Industrial Districts
   
153.060   I-1 Light Industrial Districts
   
153.061   I-2 Heavy Industrial Districts
Agricultural Districts
   
153.075   Preamble
   
153.076   Bona fide agricultural uses
   
153.077   Uses permitted in the AG Agricultural District
   
153.078   Special uses in the AG Agricultural District
Supplementary Regulations
   
153.090   Introduction
   
153.091   Area
   
153.092   Yards
   
153.093   Off-street parking
   
153.094   Zero lot lines; two-family dwellings
   
153.095   Telecommunications facilities permitted as a conditional use
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Lacon,
Illinois, Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense. The singular number
includes the plural. The word “person” includes a corporation as well as an
individual. The word “lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel.” The term
“shall” is always mandatory. The word “used” or “occupied” as applied to any
land or building shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged or
designed to be used or occupied.”
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to
the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal
use or building.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, is a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; or an
enlargement whether by extending on a side or by increasing height; or the
moving from one location or position to another.
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property, including tents, lunch wagons,
dining cars, camp cars, trailers and other roofed structures on wheels or other
supports used for residential, business, mercantile, storage, commercial,
industrial, institutional, assembly, educational or recreational purposes. For
the purposes of this definition, “roof” shall include an awning or other
similar covering, whether or not permanent in nature.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of that face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered porches
whether enclosed or unenclosed but does not include steps.
   BUILDING PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated.
   BULK. Signifies the size of building in terms of floor area and floor area
ratio, the location of building wall in relation to lot lines and to the
exterior walls of other buildings, and the yards, front, side and rear required
under the terms of this chapter.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building used as a residence exclusively by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used as a residence exclusively by two
families.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building used as a residence for more than two
families living independently of each other and doing their own cooking
therein, including apartment houses, apartment hotels, group houses and row
houses.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or portion thereof providing complete living
facilities for one family.
   FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a premises and living as a
single housekeeping unit, whether or not unrelated to each other by birth,
adoption or marriage, but no unrelated group shall consist of more than five
persons, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging house or
hotel, as herein defined.
   FILLING STATION. Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuel or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises are classified as public garage.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  
      (1)   For the purpose of determining floor area ratio, the GROSS FLOOR
AREA of a building or buildings shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors of such building or buildings measured from the exterior
faces of exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls separating two
buildings.
      (2)   In particular, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall include:
         (a)   Basement space if at least one-half of the basement story height
is above the average level of the finished grade;
         (b)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
         (c)   Attic floor space provided there is structural headroom of more
than seven and one-half feet;
         (d)   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
         (e)   Enclosed porches; and
         (f)   Accessory uses other than floor space devoted exclusively to
accessory off-street parking or loading.
      (3)   GROSS FLOOR AREA, for the purposes of determining floor area ratio,
however, shall not include:
         (a)   Floor space devoted exclusively to accessory off-street parking
or loading;
         (b)   Basement space where more than one-half the basement story
height is below the average level of the finished grade;
         (c)   Elevator and stair bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers;
         (d)   Attic floor space where structural headroom is seven and one-
half feet or less;
         (e)   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where structural
headroom is seven and one-half feet or less; or
         (f)   Terraces, breezeways and open porches.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The numerical value obtained through dividing the
gross floor area of a building or buildings by the total area of the lot or
parcel of land on which such building or buildings are located.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building housing not more than four motor
vehicles, not more than one of which may be commercial vehicle of not more than
one and one-half tons capacity, for the use of the occupants of the lot on
which the private garage is located, or for others pursuant to previous
arrangement and not to transients, and at which automobile fuels and oils are
not sold, and motor vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
   GARAGE PUBLIC.  An garage or other than a private garage, available to the
public, operated for gain, and which is used for storage, repair, rental,
greasing, washing servicing, adjusting, selling or equipping of automobiles or
other motor vehicles.
   LOT. A portion or parcel of land considered as a unit, devoted to a certain
use or occupied by a building or a group of buildings that are united by a
common interest or use, and the customary accessories and open spaces belonging
to the same.
   MOTEL. A building or a group of detached, semi-detached or attached
buildings containing guest rooms or dwelling units each of which, or each pair
of which, has a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the.
building, with garage or parking space conveniently located to each unit, and
which is designed, used or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation
of motor vehicle transients. MOTELS do not include hotels, boarding houses or
trailer camps.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure lawfully existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, and which does not conform
with the regulations of the district in which is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a structure or land at the
time of adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, and which does not
conform with the regulations of the district in which it is located. For the
purpose of this chapter, any use lawfully established on the effective date of
this chapter, which is nonconforming solely by virtue of lacking off-street
parking or loading facilities as required hereafter for new uses, shall not
deemed a NONCONFORMING USE.
   PARKING SPACE. An all-weather surfaced area within the lot lines, enclosed
in the main building, in an accessory building, or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one standard automobile, and if the space is enclosed comprising
an area of not less than 140 square feet; if enclosed, at least 20 feet by ten
feet, with an all-weather surface permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of
an automobile.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT OR ZONE. Any one or all of the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3 and R-
4 Districts.
   SATELLITE EARTH STATION (SATELLITE DISH). Dish-shaped antennas designed to
receive television broadcasts relayed by microwave signals from earth orbiting
communications satellites.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials, other than a building, to form a
construction that is safe and stable and includes among other things stadiums,
platforms, radio towers, sheds, storage bins, fences and display signs.
   TRAILER COACH, MOBILE HOME. Any enclosure or vehicle used for living
sleeping, business or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels,
blocks, skids, jacks, horses or skirting, and which is, has been or reasonably
may be equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting it from place to
place.
   TRAILER COURT. The premises upon which one or more occupied trailer coaches
is located.
   YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The
depth of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the front line of the
building and street line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed,
shall be considered as a part of the main building and shall not project into a
required FRONT YARD.
   YARD, REAR.  An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the
lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot,
or the centerline of alley, if there be an alley, and the rear line of the
building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building
situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of
the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of
the rear yard. If no front yard is required, the front boundary of the SIDE
YARD shall be the front line of the lot, and if no rear yard is required, the
rear boundary of the SIDE YARD shall be the rear line of the lot.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960; Ord. passed 9-9-1985)
§ 153.003 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the city and the land lying outside and contiguous for a distance of
one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the city, are hereby
divided into the following types of districts:
   (A)   AG Districts (Agricultural Districts);
   (B)   R-1 Districts (One-Family Residential) - (FAR 0.5);
   (C)   R-2 Districts (One-Family Residential) - (FAR 0.5);
   (D)   R-2A Districts (Two-Family Residential) - (FAR 0.7);
   (E)   R-3 Districts (Multiple Family Residential) - (FAR 1.2);
   (F)   R-4 Districts (Mobile Homes) - (FAR 0.3);
   (G)   C-1 Districts (Local Retail Districts) - (FAR 0.8);
   (H)   C-2 Districts (General Retail Districts) - (FAR 1.0);
   (I)   C-3 Districts (Service District) - (FAR 1.2);
   (J)   I-1 Districts (Light Industrial Districts) - (FAR 2.0); and
   (K)   I-2 Districts (Heavy Industrial Districts) - (FAR 5.0).
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960; Ord. passed 10-27-1994)
§ 153.004 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of street and highways, street lines or highway right-of-way lines,
such centerlines, street lines or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed
to be such boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, such lot line shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (C)   Where districts boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or the
centerlines or right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall
be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as
indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary lines shall be deemed to be located midway between the main tracks of
said railroad line.
   (E)   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, the district boundary
lines shall be determined by scale to the nearest ten feet.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.005 TRANSITION ZONING.
   (A)   Where a lot in a business or industrial district abuts a lot in a
residential district there shall be provided along such abutting lines a yard
equal in width or depth to that required in the residential districts.
   (B)   Where the frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets is zoned partly as residential and partly as business or industrial,
the front yard depth in the business or industrial shall be equal to the
required front depth of the residential district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary line parallel or approximately
parallel to a street divides a lot having street frontage in the less
restricted zoning district, the provisions of this chapter covering the less
restricted portion of such lot may extend to the entire lot, but in no case for
a distance of more than 25 feet of such zoning district boundary line. Where
such zoning district boundary line divides a lot having street frontage in a
more restricted zone, the provisions of this chapter covering the more
restricted portion of such lot shall extend to the entire lot.
   (D)   Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot and such line is
normal or approximately normal to the street upon which the lot fronts, the
provisions of this chapter covering the less or the more restricted portion of
such lot may be extended to the entire lot, but in no case for distance of more
than 25 feet from such zoning district boundary line.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.006 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it
is located.
   (B)   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (2)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      (3)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards,
inner or outer courts than is specified herein for the district in which such
building is located.
   (C)   Control over bulk: all new buildings and structures shall conform to
the bulk requirements established herein for the district in which each
building or structure shall be located. Further, no existing building or
structure shall be enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered, converted or
relocated in such a manner as to conflict with, or if already in conflict with,
in such a manner as to further conflict with, the bulk regulations of this
chapter for the zoning district in which such building or structure shall be
located.
   (D)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions if this chapter shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
building.
   (E)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be
considered as being in the R-1 District until otherwise changed by ordinance.
   (F)   Whenever any street, alley other public way is vacated by official
action of the City Council, the zoning district adjoining each side of the such
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation, and also area included in the vacation shall then henceforth be
subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.007 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The lawful use any building or structure existing at the time of the
passage of this chapter may be continued, although such use does not conform
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A nonconforming use shall not be extended, but the extension of a
lawful use to any portion of the building designed for a nonconforming use
which existed prior to the enactment of this chapter, shall not be deemed the
extension of such nonconforming use. Any such valid extension must meet the lot
area, side yard, front yard and rear yard requirements provided for that
district in which the nonconforming building is located.
   (C)   A nonconforming building may not be constructed or structurally
altered during its life to an extent exceeding in aggregate cost 50% of the
current fair value of the building unless said building is changed to a
conforming use. A building designed for a nonconforming use, however, may be
reconstructed or altered beyond the limitation herein provided by the action of
the Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, as required by law in case of
variances. The limitations herein provided shall not prohibit the restoration
to a safe condition of any structure or portion thereof declared unsafe by a
proper authority.
   (D)   If a nonconforming use has ceased for a period of one year or more, it
shall not be re-established unless the nonconforming use was in a building
designed, arranged, and intended for such use.
   (E)   Once changed to a conforming use, no building or land shall be
permitted to revert to a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use shall not be
substituted or added to another nonconforming use.
   (F)   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to
transfer an area from one district to another district of a different
classification, the foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming
uses existing therein.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.008 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning Enforcing Officer who shall be
appointed by the Mayor of city by and with the consent of the City Council. No
building permit or certificate of occupancy shall issued by him or her except
where the provisions of this chapter shall have been complied with.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.009 PERMITS.
   It shall be lawful to establish any use of a building structure or land,
either by itself or in addition to another use, or to erect a new building or
structure or part thereof, or to re-build, structurally alter, add to or re-
locate any building or structure, or part thereof, without obtaining a permit
from the Zoning Enforcing Officer in accordance with the following regulations.
   (A)   Building permits.
      (1)   Application for permits shall be filed in written form with the
Enforcing Officer, shall state the legal description of the property, the name
and address of the owner, the applicant and the contractor, the estimated
costs, and shall describe the uses to be established or expanded and shall give
such information as may be required by this chapter for its proper enforcement.
      (2)   All applications shall be accompanied by a dimensioned drawing of
the building plot showing the location of buildings and structures, lot areas
to be used, and auto parking areas.
      (3)   Each permit issued for a main building shall also cover any
accessory structures or buildings constructed at the same time on the same
premises, and such permit shall be posted in plain sight on the same premises
for which it is issued until completion of construction or occupancy.
      (4)   Any work change in use authorized by permit but not substantially
started within 90 days shall require a new permit. A permit shall be revoked by
the Enforcing Officer when he or she shall find from personal inspection or
from competent evidence that the rules or regulations under which it has been
issued are being violated.
      (5)   All applications and a copy of all permits issued shall be
systematically filed and kept by the Enforcement Officer in his or her office
for ready reference.
      (6)   To partially defray expenses of administering the ordinance, a fee
shall be charged for each permit and collected by the Enforcing Officer who
shall account for the same to the city. Fees for building permits shall be
based upon the type of structure sought to be erected and shall be as follows:
         (a)   Houses with or without attached garage: $50;
         (b)   Room additions: $35;
         (c)   Garage: $35;
         (d)   Sheds and out buildings: $25;
         (e)   Fences and attached decks: $25;
         (f)   Commercial buildings: $200; and
         (g)   Commercial building additions: $100.
   (B)   Certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter
erected, altered or extended shall be used or charged in use a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   All certificates of occupancy shall be applied for coincident with
the application for a building permit, and said certificate shall be issued
within three days after the erection or alteration shall have been approved.
      (3)   Certificates of occupancy for the use of vacant land shall be
applied for before any such land shall be occupied or used, and a certificate
of occupancy shall be issued within three days after the application has been
made, provided such use is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   The Zoning Enforcing Officer shall maintain a record of all
certificates and copies shall be furnished, upon request, to any person having
a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
      (5)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alternation or
repairs to any building shall be issued until an application of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960; Ord. passed 9-9-1985; Ord. passed 4-11-1994; Ord. 2005-
4, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.010 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
public health, morals, safety and the general welfare. Wherever the
requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules, regulation or ordinances, the most restrictive, or that
imposing the higher standards shall govern.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in
any way impair or interfere with private restrictions place upon property by
covenants running with the land. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon land, buildings or structures than is imposed or required by
such existing provisions of law, ordinance, contractor or deed, the provisions
of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.011 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Organization. A Board of Appeals is hereby established in accordance
with the provisions of the statute applicable thereto. Regular meetings of the
Board shall be held at such time and place within the city as the Board may
determine. Special meetings may be held at the call of the Chairperson, or as
determined by the Board. Such Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be open to the public. Such Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote, the minutes shall indicate
such fact. The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedures not in conflict
with the statute or this chapter.
   (B)   Appeals. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by the officer, department board or bureau of the city. Such
appeal shall be taken within 20 days from the date of the action appealed from,
by filing with the Enforcing Officer and Board of Appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The Enforcing Office shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. An appeal stays all proceeding in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Enforcing Officer certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated
in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or property. The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same
within a reasonable time. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the use, requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion,
ought to be made in the premises.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide
appeals from any order, requirements, decisions or determination made by the
Enforcing Officer. It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter. The Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the order, requirement
decision or determination appealed from to the extent and in manner that the
Board may decide to be fitting and proper in the premises, and to that end the
Board shall also have all powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (1)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms
of this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of building or
structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Board is satisfied, under the
evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant but is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship so great as to warrant a variation in the following
instances:
         (a)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of
a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
         (b)   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which
has been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than 50% of its value, by
fire or act of God, or the public enemy, where the Board shall find some
compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming use,
and in no case shall such a permit be issued if its primary function is to
continue a monopoly;
         (c)   To make a variance, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings or condition of a specific piece of property or by the reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of
record, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions the strict
application of any provision of this chapter would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property, and amount to a practical confiscation of property, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner, provided such relief can
be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the comprehensive
plan as established by the regulations and provisions contained in this
chapter;
         (d)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
district map fixing the several districts;
         (e)   To waive the parking requirements in the business or industrial
districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as to make
unnecessary the full provision of parking facilities or where such regulations
would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot, as contrasted
with merely granting an advantage or convenience;
         (f)   To permit a building to be erected, reconstructed, altered or
enlarged so that the building lines will extend beyond the distance specified
in this chapter into side yards or into front yards, provided that such
variance may not be granted: unless there is a building in the block which
extends beyond the distance from the front street line specified in this
chapter, in which case the building line may be permitted to extend as near to
the front street line as such nonconforming building; or unless the lot is
irregular in shape, topography or size; unless the street line of the lot is
directly opposite the street line of a lot which is irregular in shape,
topography or size; or
         (g)   To permit in any district such modifications of the requirements
of the regulations of this chapter as said Board may deem necessary to secure
an appropriate development of a lot where adjacent to such lot on two or more
sides there are buildings that do not conform to the regulations of the
district.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance or the
district map; such power and authority being reserved to the City Council. The
Board of Appeals may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the use of
the premises benefitted by a variation, except in a specified case, after an
application for a permit has been made to the Enforcing Officer and after duly
advertised public hearing shall contain the address or location of the property
for which the variation, or other ruling by the Board, is sought, as well as a
brief description of the nature of the appeal. In order to partially defray the
expenses of the public hearing involving variances, the applicant shall pay the
sum of $100 to the City Treasurer at the time of the filing of the appeal for
the variance.
   (D)   Appeals to court. All final administrative decisions of the Board of
Appeals rendered under the terms of this chapter shall be subject to judicial
review pursuant of the “Administrative Review Act” approved May 8, 1945, and
all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.012 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time, on its own motion or on
petition after report by the Planning Commission and after hearing and public
notice of such a hearing given by one publication in the city at least 15 days
before the time of hearing amend, supplement or change by ordinance, the
regulations and districts herein or subsequently established. In case of
written protest against any proposed amendment signed and acknowledged by the
owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20%
of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the
owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered as to such not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of
all of the members of the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall not be required to take action for the conduct
of a hearing on petition by property owners to amend, supplement, or change the
boundaries of any district or to reclassify any property, but whenever owners
of 50% or more of the street frontage in any block shall present to the City
Council a petition, duly and acknowledged, requesting such amendment or
reclassification, it shall be the duty of the City Council to refer said
petition to the Planning Commission to hold a hearing thereon, as provided by
statute.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 153.025 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   The following uses are permitted in all residential zones subject to the
following conditions.
   (A)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish house, convents, where
located at least 50 feet from any other lot in any residential district.
   (B)   Public, parochial and private schools, where located at least 50 feet
from any other lot in any residence district.
   (C)   Public libraries, public museums and public art galleries where
located at least 50 feet from any other lot in any residence district.
   (D)   Municipal, state or federal administrative or service buildings, where
located at least 50 feet from any other lot in any residence district.
   (E)   Public parks, playgrounds and community centers, provided that any
building shall be located at least 50 feet from any other lot in any residence
district.
   (F)   Existing railroad rights-of-way, providing that there is no switching,
storage, freight yards or sidings.
   (G)   Nurseries, truck gardening and the raising of farm crops, but not the
raising of poultry, pets or livestock; and provided further that no building
shall be erected or maintained on the property which is used for the sole
purpose of selling the products grown or raised.
   (H)   Home occupations.
      (1)   Generally. It is the intent of this section to allow home
occupations only those uses that conform to the standards of this section. In
general, a home occupation is an accessory use so located or conducted that the
average neighbor, under normal circumstances, would not be aware of its
existence. The standards for home occupations are intended to ensure
compatibility with other permitted uses and the residential character of the
neighborhood and to maintain the subordinate and incidental status of the home
occupation. It is intended that the home occupation shall be incidental to the
principal use of the dwelling unit as a residence. No home occupation shall
interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring residential
properties.
      (2)   Unrelated employees. A home occupation shall employ only members of
the immediate family and no more than one individual who is unrelated to the
family residing on the premises.
      (3)   Floor area. The total area used for a home occupation shall not
exceed 25% of the gross floor are of a dwelling, or 300 square feet (not
including garage area) whichever is less.
      (4)   Neighborhood interference. The home occupation shall not interfere
with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring residential properties,
and shall be located or conducted so that the average neighbor, under normal
circumstances, would not be aware of its existence.
      (5)   Dwelling alterations. In any residential district, a principal
residential building shall not be altered to accommodate a home occupation in
such a way as to materially change the residential character of the building.
      (6)   Outdoor storage. No storage or display of material, goods, supplies
or equipment related to the operation of a home occupation shall be visible
from the outside of any structure located on the premises.
      (7)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall produce no offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, electrical interference, dust odors or heat detectable beyond
the property lines shall constitute a violation of the terms of the provision.
The judgement of the Building Official shall be considered decisive and final
in this matter unless formally appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals within
30 days of the building official’s written determination.
      (8)   Delivery. There shall be no commodity sold or services rendered
that require delivery or shipment of merchandise, goods or equipment by other
than common carrier, passenger sized motor vehicles, three-quarter to step-up
van or similar sized trucks.
      (9)   Parking. See §
153.093. Additionally, no more than three related automobile visits to the
premises at any given moment in time within the period of 6:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m. daily shall be permitted.
      (10)   Signs. One flush mount, non-illuminated identification sign not to
exceed two square feet in size may be installed on the facade of a building for
the purpose of identifying a home occupation.
      (11)   Prohibited uses. The following uses, in addition to those uses
which do not meet the standards set forth within this chapter shall be
prohibited as home occupations:
         (a)   Animal hospitals;
         (b)   Clinics; medical and dental;
         (c)   Eating and drinking establishments;
         (d)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes;
         (e)   Kennels;
         (f)   Rental of mobile homes, trailers and camper trailers;
         (g)   Stables;
         (h)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors;
         (i)   Auto, tractor repair shops;
         (j)   General retail;
         (k)   Private clubs;
         (l)   Animal grooming establishments; and
         (m)   Dance schools.
      (12)   Application procedures. Any person desiring to obtain a permit for
a home occupation shall make an application for same with the Zoning
Enforcement Officer of the city, or his or her designee. The application shall
be made on such forms as required by the city. There shall be a non-refundable
fee of $50 for the initial application.
      (13)   Miscellaneous. The applicant understands that the special use
permit is revocable if the rules and regulations are not adhered to. A home
occupation shall be considered abandoned if it is discontinued for a period of
three consecutive months during any calendar year. After such abandonment, an
application to resume the home occupation must be filed with and approved by
the Planning Commission. Mandatory review by the Commission of home occupations
shall occur after the first six months of operation and thereafter annually.
The purpose of the review is to determine compliance with any conditions
imposed by the commission and to ensure no adverse effects, resulting from the
home occupation, have occurred in the neighborhood.
   (I)   One unlighted or unilluminated sign advertising the sale or rent of
the land or building upon which it is located. Such sign shall not exceed ten
square feet in area, and shall be distant from the street line not less than
one-half of the front yard depth.
   (J)   One sign or bulletin board not exceeding 12 square feet in area in
connection with churches or public buildings.
   (K)   A nonconforming business use may have exterior signs aggregating not
more than 12 square feet in area on any lot.
   (L)   The taking of boarders or leasing of rooms by a resident family,
provided the total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed two in any
one-family dwelling, or one per dwelling unit in any multiple dwelling.
   (M)   Other customary accessory uses and buildings, provided such uses are
incidental to the principal use and do not include any activity commonly
conducted as a business. Any accessory building shall be located on the same
lot with the principal building and not nearer than three feet to any wall
thereof; provided, however, no part of any accessory building may used for
residence purposes, except that domestic employees of the owner, lessee or
occupants of the principal building, and the family of such employee may have
quarters in such accessory building. No accessory building shall exceed 15 feet
in height. No required front yard shall be used for the open-air parking or
storage of motor vehicles.
   (N)   Any building used as a residence shall contain on the ground floor at
least 700 square feet of livable floor space in a R-1 District and 600 square
feet in an R-2 District.
   (O)   Cemeteries, provided the location thereof is approved by resolution of
the City Council after public hearing held and recommendation made by the
Planning Commission.
   (P)   Planned development, under single ownership or control, in which
incidental business and recreational facilities for the convenience of the
occupants may be furnished provided that the property shall have a gross area
of at least 30 acres and provided that permitted business uses shall be limited
to those uses allowed in C-1 Districts and that they shall not occupy more than
ten per cent of the gross land area of the development.
      (1)   For such developments the City Council may vary bulk regulations of
this chapter if such variations are consistent with general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater
benefit both to the occupants of the development and to the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (2)   The location of the planned development must be approved by
resolution of the City Council after a public hearing held and recommendation
made by the Planning Commission.
   (Q)   No part of any satellite earth station shall be any closer than ten
feet to any lot line, street or alley. Also not to reach a height of more than
35 feet from ground level.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960; Ord. passed 9-9-1985; Ord. passed 10-27-1994; Ord.
2007-12, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 153.026 R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all R-1 Districts.
   (A)   Uses permitted. One-family dwellings.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio on a lot shall not exceed 0.5.
   (C)   Required lot area. Each dwelling shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 7,500 square feet, and lot width of not less than 60
feet.
   (D)   Yards required. Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet unless the dwelling unit is
constructed in an established area on one side of the street between
intersecting streets which is improved with buildings that have observed a
front yard depth of less than 25 feet. In such established districts, the front
yard depth may be the same as, but not less than, the building immediately
adjacent to either side of the proposed building structure. Where a lot is
located at the intersection of two or more streets, there shall be a front yard
on each street side of the lot, except that the buildable width of such lot
shall not be reduced to less than 32 feet. No accessory building shall project
beyond the front yard line on either street.
      (2)   Side yards. Each lot less than eight feet wide, and the sum of the
two side yards shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards. Each lot less than 25 feet, but in no event less than
25% of the depth of the lot.
   (E)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.027 R-2 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all R-2 Districts.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in an R-1 District; and
      (2)   One-family dwellings.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio on a lot shall not exceed 0.5.
   (C)   Required lot area. Each dwelling shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 6,000 square feet, and lot width of not less than 50
feet.
   (D)   Yards required. Yards of the following minimum depth shall be
provided.
      (1)   Front yard: same as those required in R-1 Districts.
      (2)   Side yards: each not less than five feet wide, and the sum of the
two side yards shall not be less than 12 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards: each not less than 20 feet, but in no event less than
20% of the depth of the lot.
   (E)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.028 R-2A TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all R-2A Districts:
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in an R-2 District; and
      (2)   Two-family dwelling.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio on a lot shall not exceed 0.7.
   (C)   Required lot area.
      (1)   Each single-family dwelling shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 6,000 square feet. Lot width shall not be less than 50
feet.
      (2)   Each two-family dwelling shall be located on a lot having an area
of not less than 6,000 square feet per family. Lot width shall not be less than
50 feet.
   (D)   Yards required. Yards of the following minimum depth shall be
provided:
      (1)   Front yard: same as those required in R-1 Districts.
      (2)   Side yard: same as those required in R-2 Districts.
      (3)   Rear yard: same as those required in R-2 Districts.
   (E)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.029 R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all R-3 Districts.
   (A)   Uses permitted. 
      (1)   Any use permitted in an R-2A District;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwelling;
      (3)   Rooming and boarding houses where lodging only is provided for
compensation to three or more but not more than 20 persons;
      (4)   Tourist homes;
      (5)   Dormitories;
      (6)   Clubs and lodges, excepting such clubs or lodges, the chief
activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business or
primarily for gain. In conjunction with such club or lodge a dining room may be
operated provided it is incidental to the activities of said club or lodge and
is conducted for the benefit of the members thereof only, and further provided
no sign is displayed advertising such activity;
      (7)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, philanthropic and eleemosynary
institutions and similar uses. No such use, however, shall be established or
permitted on a parcel of land less than one acre in area, nor shall any part or
portion of such use be permitted within 50 feet of any street or lot line;
      (8)   Professional offices and medical clinics; and
      (9)   Signs pertaining to any permitted use of a building may be placed
thereon provided any such signs are in the form of a name plate or announcement
sign, and provided further that the total area of all such signs may not exceed
12 square feet.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio on a lot shall not exceed 1.2.
   (C)   Required area. Each single-family dwelling shall be erected on a lot
having an area of not less than 6,000 square feet per family, a two-family
dwelling shall be erected on a lot having an area of not less than 3,000 square
feet per family, and in case of multiple dwellings, not less than 2,500 square
feet per dwelling unit, and all dwellings shall be located on a lot having a
lot width of not less than 50 feet.
   (D)   Yards required. Yards of the following minimum shall be provided:
      (1)   Front yard: same as those required in R-1 Districts;
      (2)   Side yard: same as those required in R-2 Districts; and
      (3)   Rear yard: same as those required in R-2 Districts.
   (E)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.030 R-4 MOBILE HOME, TRAILER COURT DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all R-4 Districts.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Agriculture, but not including the disposal or feeding of garbage,
and provided that no poultry or livestock shall be housed or confined within
100 feet of any dwelling except that of the owner or lesser of the tract;
      (2)   Trailer courts, (mobile homes), provided that the water and
sanitary facilities furnished conform to the requirements of the State Health
Department;
      (3)   Restaurants;
      (4)   Service stations; and
      (5)   Tourist courts and motels.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. Shall not exceed 0.3.
   (C)   Required area.
      (1)   Lot area per dwelling. There shall be provided a minimum of 1,250
square feet of the lot area for each trailer.
      (2)   Lot width. There shall be provided a lot width of not less than 25
feet.
   (D)   Yards required.
      (1)   Front yards: there shall be provided a front yard of not less than
ten feet.
      (2)   Side yards: there shall be provided two side yards each of which
shall be at least eight feet in width, except that trailers shall be a minimum
of 25 feet from a public street and ten feet from any property line.
      (3)   Rear yards: there shall be provided a rear yard of not less than
ten feet in depth.
   (E)   Signs. To identify the mobile homes one sign which may be illuminated.
   (F)   Automobile storage or parking space.
      (1)   The total area of the mobile home including accessory uses shall
have not less than 3,000 square feet for each trailer coach. Gravel, crushed
rock or other improved surface roadway shall be installed to furnish access to
each mobile home site; parking area off the public right-of-way shall be
furnished at the rate of one parking space for each trailer unit.
      (2)   Regulations for non-trailer coach uses shall be in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
§ 153.045 C-1 LOCAL RETAIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Preamble. Local retail districts are designed for the convenience
shopping of people residing in the adjacent neighborhood residential areas, and
to permit only such uses as are necessary to satisfy these limited basic
shopping needs which occur daily or frequently, thus requiring shopping
facilities close to residence. The following regulations shall apply in all C-
1 Districts.
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Agriculture, but not including the disposal or feeding of garbage,
and provided that no poultry or livestock shall be housed or confined within
100 feet of any building, except that of the owner or lessor of the tract;
      (2)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms, provided that they are not
located on the ground floor of buildings; and
      (3)   Retail trade uses, provided they are on the ground floor buildings
as follows:
         (a)   Accessory uses;
         (b)   Barber shops;
         (c)   Beauty parlors;
         (d)   Book and stationary stores;
         (e)   Clothes pressing establishments;
         (f)   Drug stores;
         (g)   Dry cleaning and laundry receiving stations; processing to be
done elsewhere;
         (h)   Florist shops;
         (i)   Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets, bakeries,
delicatessens and package liquor stores;
         (j)   Gift shops;
         (k)   Hardware stores;
         (l)   Laundries, automatic self-service types or hand, employing not
more than two persons in addition to one owner or manager, provided that
laundry machines shall not exceed ten pounds capacity each;
         (m)   Millinery shops;
         (n)   Shoe and hat repair stores;
         (o)   Signs as regulated by this section;
         (p)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed the duration of such construction; and
         (q)   Variety stores.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted as special uses when
authorized by the City Council after a public hearing and recommendation by the
Planning Commission:
      (1)   Electric or telephone substations and other governmental and
utility service uses;
      (2)   Other business uses; and
      (3)   Planned development, as set forth in §
153.025(P).
   (D)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed 0.8.
   (E)   Required area. Lot area:
      (1)   The net land area for each business establishment shall not be less
than 2,500 square feet; and
      (2)   There shall be provided not less than 2,500 square feet of lot area
per dwelling unit, and for lodging rooms there shall be provided not less than
1,250 square feet of lot area per room.
   (F)   Yards required.
      (1)   Front yard: there shall be provided on each lot a front yard not
less than five feet in depth or a depth to coincide with adjacent buildings in
the same block.
      (2)   Side yard: there shall be provided a side yard along any lot line
which adjoins a residence district; it shall be not less than ten feet in
width.
      (3)   Rear yard: there shall be a rear yard not less than 20 feet in
depth; however, when a rear lot line abuts an alley, one-half of the width of
such alley may be counted toward satisfaction of the rear yard requirement.
   (G)   Signs. Business and advertising signs are permitted subject to the
following.
      (1)   Illumination of all signs shall be diffused or indirect and shall
be arranged so as not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent residential
districts or into the public way.
      (2)   Any sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic
control signal shall not have flashing, intermittent, red, green or amber
illumination.
   (H)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking and
loading in accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
   (I)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business, service repair or processing, storage or merchandise
display shall be conducted wholly an enclosed building, except for off-street
automobile parking and off-street loading.
      (2)   Goods sold shall consist primarily of new merchandise, and all
goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail, primarily on the
premises.
      (3)   Not more than five persons in addition to a single owner or manager
shall be engaged at any time in fabricating, repairing or other processing of
goods in any establishment.
      (4)   Processes and equipment employed, and goods processed or sold shall
be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.046 C-2 GENERAL RETAIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Preamble.
      (1)   General Retail Districts are designed to cater to the needs of a
larger consumer population than served by the Local Retail District and so are
mapped typically in major shopping center locations characterized by large
establishments generating larger volumes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   The following regulations shall apply in all C-2 Districts.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in a C-1 District; in addition,
business uses may be conducted above the ground floor; and additional uses as
follows:
      (1)   Antique shops;
      (2)   Art and school supply stores;
      (3)   Art galleries;
      (4)   Automobile service stations;
      (5)   Banks and financial institutions;
      (6)   Bicycle sales, rental and repairs;
      (7)   Bowling alleys and structures accommodating recreational
activities;
      (8)   Bus depots and cab stands;
      (9)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
      (10)   Candy and ice cream stores or shops selling similar commodities
where the commodities may be produced on the premises; but all such production
shall be either sold at retail on the premises or sold in stores owned and
operated by the producing company;
      (11)   Carpet and rug stores;
      (12)   China and glassware stores;
      (13)   Coin and philatelic stores;
      (14)   Currency exchanges;
      (15)   Department stores;
      (16)   Dry goods stores;
      (17)   Electric and household appliances stores, including radio and
television sales and repair;
      (18)   Frozen food stores, including locker retail in conjunction
therewith;
      (19)   Furniture stores, including upholstery when conducted as part of
the retail operation and secondary to the principal use;
      (20)   Furrier shops including the incidental storage and conditioning of
furs;
      (21)   Garden supply and feed stores;
      (22)   Haberdashery;
      (23)   Hobby shops for retail of items to be assembled or used away from
the premises;
      (24)   Hotels;
      (25)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies slip covers and other similar articles, when conducted as part of the
retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
      (26)   Jewelry store, including watch repair;
      (27)   Laboratories, medical and dental research and testing;
      (28)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
      (29)   Libraries and reading rooms;
      (30)   Loan offices;
      (31)   Locksmith shops;
      (32)   Medical and dental clinic;
      (33)   Musical instruments, sales and repairs;
      (34)   Newspaper offices;
      (35)   Offices, business and professional;
      (36)   Office supply stores;
      (37)   Optometrists;
      (38)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (39)   Pet shops;
      (40)   Photography studios, including the developing of film and
pictures, when conducted as part of the retail business on the premises;
      (41)   Physical culture and health service, gymnasium and reducing
salons, masseurs and public baths;
      (42)    Picture framing when conducted for retail trade on the premises
only;
      (43)   Post offices;
      (44)   Public garages, including new and used car sales rooms, provided
that no used cars shall be sold or stored unless enclosed within a building,
but this clause shall not prohibit the outdoor display of new cars;
      (45)   Public meeting halls;
      (46)   Radio and television broadcasting studios;
      (47)   Restaurants, cocktail lounges, tea room;
      (48)   Restricted production and repair, limited to the following: art,
needlework, clothing, custom manufacturing and alterations for the retail only,
jewelry from precious metals; watches, dentures and optical lenses;
      (49)   Retail stores and shops;
      (50)   Sales and display rooms;
      (51)   Schools; music, dance or business;
      (52)   Service, cleaning or repair shops for personal, household or
garden equipment;
      (53)   Sewing machine sales and service, household machines only;
      (54)   Shoe stores;
      (55)   Sporting goods stores;
      (56)   Tailor or dressmaking shops;
      (57)   Telegraph offices;
      (58)   Temporary outdoor demonstrations and exhibitions or merchandise
primarily for outdoor use;
      (59)   Tobacco shops;
      (60)   Toy shops;
      (61)   Wearing apparel shops; and
      (62)   Accessory uses.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted as special uses when
authorized by the City Council after a public hearing and recommendation by the
Planning Commission:
      (1)   Those permitted in a C-1 District;
      (2)   Clubs and lodges; private, fraternal or religious; and
      (3)   Taverns.
   (D)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.0.
   (E)   Required area. Regulations governing lot area in C-1 Districts shall
apply.
   (F)   Required yards. Yards regulations shall be the same as in C-
1 Districts.
   (G)   Signs. The regulations for signs shall be the same as required for C-
1 Districts.
   (H)   Automobile storage or parking space. There shall be adequate off-
street parking and loading provisions in accordance with §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.047 C-3 SERVICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Preamble. The Service District is designed primarily to furnish areas
served by General Retail Districts with necessary services and goods not
allowed in General Retail Districts because they are incompatible with the uses
permitted in the General Retail Districts. The following regulations shall
apply in all C-3 Districts:
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in C-1 and C-2 Districts;
      (2)   Accessory uses;
      (3)   Animal hospitals;
      (4)   Animal pounds;
      (5)   Apartments, attached dwellings and other multiple-family dwellings;
provided the residential development has an unbroken frontage of at least 100
feet, that there is at least 2,500 square feet of lot area per dwelling unit;
      (6)   Auction rooms;
      (7)   Auto service stations, including minor services customarily
incidental thereto, facilities for chassis and gear lubrication, and vehicle
washing, but not including the sale of vehicles, new or used;
      (8)   Blue printing and photocopying establishments;
      (9)   Boat sales;
      (10)   Building material establishments, dimension lumber, millwork,
cabinets and other building materials provided that no milling, planing,
jointing or manufacture of millwork shall be conducted on the premises;
      (11)   Cartage and express facilities providing storage of goods, motor
trucks and other equipment, if in enclosed structures;
      (12)   Caskets and casket supplies;
      (13)   Catering establishments;
      (14)   Clothing and costume rental shops;
      (15)   Clubs and lodging; private, fraternal or religious;
      (16)   Contractors or construction offices and shops such as building,
concrete, electrical, masonry, painting, plumbing, refrigeration and roofing;
      (17)   Dog kennels;
      (18)   Dry cleaning and laundry establishments, employing not more than
ten persons in addition to office help and owner or manager;
      (19)   Employment agencies;
      (20)   Exterminating shops;
      (21)   Feed stores;
      (22)   Fuel and ice sales;
      (23)   Garages, public, for storage, repair and servicing of automobiles
and trucks, including body repair and painting, but not including auto wrecking
yards;
      (24)   Greenhouse and/or nurseries;
      (25)   Ice storage limited to five tons capacity;
      (26)   Linens, towels, diapers and similar supply services;
      (27)   Live bait stores;
      (28)   Machinery sales, including farm machinery sales;
      (29)   Mail order houses;
      (30)   Meat markets, including the sale of meats and meat products to
restaurants, hotels, clubs or other similar establishments when conducted as a
part of the retail business on the premises;
      (31)   Monument sales;
      (32)   Motels;
      (33)   Motorcycles sales;
      (34)   Motor vehicle and equipment sales and service;
      (35)   Municipal or privately owned recreational buildings or community
centers;
      (36)   Orthopedic and medical appliance stores, but not including the
assembly or manufacture of such articles;
      (37)   Open sales lots;
      (38)   Outdoor areas where outdoor merchandise, machinery or equipment
may be displayed and others taken, but no regular delivery of large or heavy
items shall be made therefrom;
      (39)   Packaging and cratings;
      (40)   Pawn shops;
      (41)   Pet shops;
      (42)   Plumbing showrooms and shops;
      (43)   Poultry; live, slaughtering and retail sales;
      (44)   Printing and publishing establishments having not more than 25
employees other than office and building service employees;
      (45)   Recording studies;
      (46)   Research laboratories;
      (47)   Riding academics and public stables;
      (48)   Seed processing establishments;
      (49)   Sheet metal shops;
      (50)   Storage and warehousing, and wholesale establishments;
      (51)   Taverns;
      (52)   Theaters (not outdoor);
      (53)   Trailer sales;
      (54)   Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices;
      (55)   Typewriter and adding machine sales and service; and
      (56)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted as special uses when
authorized by the City Council after a public hearing and recommendation by the
Planning Commission:
      (1)   Those permitted in a C-2 District as special uses;
      (2)   Auto laundries;
      (3)   Recreation and amusement establishments, including archery ranges,
bowling alleys, pool halls, dance halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, skating
rinks, golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, miniature railroads, merry-
go-rounds and other mechanical rides; and
      (4)   Theaters, automobile drive-in.
   (D)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.2.
   (E)   Required area. Regulations governing lot area in C-2 Districts shall
apply.
   (F)   Required yard.
      (1)   Front yard. Regulations governing front yard requirements in C-
2 Districts shall apply, except that for auto service stations fuel pumps and
poles for air and water hoses shall be permitted to be located not closer than
13 feet to the street line, and except for open sales lots second hand vehicles
in operable condition shall be permitted to be located not closer than 13 feet
to the street line.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   There shall be provided a side yard along any side lot line
which adjoins a residence district; its width shall not be less than ten feet
and it shall not contain off-street parking and loading facilities.
         (b)   In side yards of less than 40 feet width, adjoining residence
districts, a solid wall or solid fence shall be provided along the property
line. Such fences or wall shall be uniformly painted, and in no case shall be
less than six feet high nor more than seven feet high.
      (3)   Rear yard. Regulations governing rear yard requirements in C-
1 Districts shall apply, except that were the rear yard adjoins another
business property and where loading and unloading space is located elsewhere on
the property and where the building is not more than one story in height the
rear yard may be reduced five feet.
   (G)   Signs. Regulations for signs shall be the same as required for C-
2 Districts, except that for auto service stations signs having an elevation
not less than 12 feet above the curb level, and supported by a single column
having a maximum diameter or horizontal exterior dimension of 12 inches,
measured four feet above the curb level, and from four to 12 feet above the
curb level having a diameter of not more than six inches, shall be permitted to
be located within three feet of the street line.
   (H)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking and
loading in accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 153.060 I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all I-1 Districts.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   All uses permitted in a C-3 District, except residential uses;
      (2)   Wholesale storage and warehouse facilities;
      (3)   Lumber, wood, feed or other similar storage yards, but not salvage
yards, coal yards or junk yards;
      (4)   Saw mills, planning mills and flour or gain mills;
      (5)   Bottling works, steam laundries, dry cleaning plants, blacksmith
shops;
      (6)   Yards, docks and transfer points for motor freight;
      (7)   Uses of a light manufacturing nature, employing electricity or
other unobjectionable motive power, utilizing hand labor or unobjectionable
machinery or processes, and free from any objectionable odors, fumes, dirt,
vibration or noise. Such uses shall not be established without an application
for a permit which shall be accompanied by evidence indicating that every
reasonable provision will be taken to eliminate or minimize gas fumes, odors,
dirt, vibration or noise. Such application for permits shall be approved by the
Zoning Enforcing Officer only in the event that the evidence accompanying the
application indicates that the operation of such uses will not be obnoxious or
offensive. In the event of denial of such permit, an application shall have a
right of appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals, in accordance with the
procedure hereinafter set forth in this chapter ; and
      (8)   Solar farm.
         (a)   A solar voltaic power array for the commercial generation and
distribution of electricity for wholesale or retail sales shall be allowed in
I-1 Districts only upon application for a special use permit filed with the
Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall conduct a hearing on the application with
such notice as may be required by statute. After the hearing, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall vote to recommend or not recommend to the City Council the
issuance of a special use permit. Any application which fails to receive the
approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be approved by the City
Council except by a favorable majority vote of all Aldermen then holding
office.
         (b)   The requirements of divisions (B) floor area ratio, and (D)
automobile storage or parking space shall not apply to this division (A)(8)
solar farms. All solar farms must be secured by a permanent fence.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio on a lot shall not exceed 2.0.
   (C)   Yards required. Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided.
      (1)   Front yard: not less than 25 feet.
      (2)   Side yard: not less than ten feet.
      (3)   Rear yard: not less than 25 feet.
   (D)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960; Ord. 2018-5, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 153.061 I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all I-2 Districts.
   (A)   Uses permitted. All uses not otherwise prohibited by law, except any
residence use provided, however, that no building or occupancy permit shall be
issued for any of the following uses until or unless the location of such uses
shall have been approved by the City Council after a public hearing thereon by
the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture;
      (2)   Ammunition manufacture and/or storage;
      (3)   Animal black, lamp black or bone black manufacture;
      (4)   Arsenal;
      (5)   Bone distillation;
      (6)   Carbon manufacture;
      (7)   Celluloid manufacture;
      (8)   Coal ovens;
      (9)   Coke ovens;
      (10)   Dead animal and offal reduction;
      (11)   Distillation of tar;
      (12)   Explosive, fireworks and gunpowder manufacture or storage;
      (13)   Fat rendering;
      (14)   Grease, lard or tallow manufactured or refined from animals;
      (15)   Hair manufacture;
      (16)   Hog farm; and
      (17)   Incineration, reduction, storage or dumping of slaughterhouse
refuses, rancid fats, dead animals or offal.
   (B)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio on a lot shall not exceed 5.0.
   (C)   Yards required. Yards of the following minimum depth shall be
provided.
      (1)   Front yard: same as those required in I-1 District.
      (2)   Side yard: same as those required in I-1 District.
      (3)   Rear yard: same as those required in I-1 District.
   (D)   Automobile storage or parking space. Adequate off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
§ 153.075 PREAMBLE.
   The intent of this subchapter in establishing an agricultural district is to
allow maximum freedom of operation for bona fide agricultural purposes and to
protect such use from encroachment by other special uses which are subject to
the regulations and requirements specified in the special use section of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-27-1994)
§ 153.076 BONA FIDE AGRICULTURAL USES.
   (A)   Whenever a farm dwelling or mobile home is to be constructed as an
agricultural use on a tract or plot comprising less than five acres, or
property comprising less than five acres and containing a farm dwelling, is to
be transferred for agricultural uses, a signed statement shall be secured by
the Enforcing Officer upon a form prescribed by the Enforcing Officer attesting
the authenticity of the agricultural use.
   (B)   It shall be determined agricultural if:
      (1)   A majority of the total cash income of the applicant is or shall be
derived from pursuit of the occupations enumerated herein, on the premises
involved; or
      (2)   The applicant is a member of the immediate family of a bona fide
farmer owning land contiguous to or on the opposite frontage to the premises
involved.
(Ord. passed 10-27-1994)
§ 153.077 USES PERMITTED IN THE AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   Other than bona fide agricultural uses within any AG Agricultural District,
no building or premises shall be used or arranged of designed to be used,
except for one or more of the following uses, which shall be subject to all
regulations and requirements for permit of this chapter and which do not
violate county and state nuisance ordinances:
   (A)   Churches;
   (B)   Dwellings, single-family or two-family to include subterranean
structures;
   (C)   Greenhouses;
   (D)   Home occupations (see definition included herein);
   (E)   Hospitals and institutions of an educational, charitable or
philanthropic nature provided that such buildings shall not be located upon
sites containing an area of less than five acres, may not occupy over 30% of
the total area of the lot, that the building shall be set back from all yard
lines a distance of not less than two feet for each foot of building height;
   (F)   Hunting and fishing;
   (G)   Lakes (artificial, three acres or less);
   (H)   Monasteries, nunneries, religious retreats, home for the aged,
orphanages;
   (I)   Any exploratory drilling operation of actual production well for gas
or oil or other natural resources, provided it is not within 300 feet of a
residence;
   (J)   Picnic grounds provided that the minimum area of such tract shall be
10,000 square feet, and that one sign with an area of not more than 20 square
feet may be displayed thereon, that a gravel crushed stone or other improved
access road shall be provided;
   (K)   Schools;
   (L)   Signs (unilluminated or unlighted) as follows:
      (1)   Nameplates not exceeding 144 square inches in area on either side
for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   Bulletin boards for churches and identification signs for schools
or other permitted uses, not exceeding 24 square feet in area when located on.
the premises of such use;
      (3)   Signs offering for sale land, lots, houses, livestock, seed corn,
not exceeding 50 square feet in area;
      (4)   Signs permitted by law within highway right-of-way; and
      (5)   Signs shall conform to the yard requirements of the district in
which placed.
   (M)   Town Halls.
(Ord. passed 10-27-1994)
§ 153.078 SPECIAL USES IN THE AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   A public hearing is required.
   (B)   To provide for the location of special classes of uses which are
deemed desirable for the public welfare within this district, but which are
potentially incompatible with uses herein permitted in it, a classification of
“special uses” is hereby established.
   (C)   The following special uses may be permitted, subject to the above
provisions:
      (1)   Airports, public and private, subject to the requirement of the
Illinois Aeronautical Department;
      (2)   Circuses, provided that they shall not operate more than 15
consecutive days, nor sell beer or alcoholic beverages, and that it shall be
located not closer than 1,000 feet to any dwelling except that of the owner or
lessor of the site;
      (3)   Cemeteries, mausoleums, crematories or columbariums;
      (4)   Children’s fairgrounds, including only riding and miniature
railroads;
      (5)   Commercial resort;
      (6)   Community buildings (Grange Halls and the like);
      (7)   Fairgrounds, racetracks and county farms;
      (8)   Fishing, commercial, in artificial or existing lakes or ponds,
including sale of food and fishing fees, soft drinks, non-illuminated for night
use;
      (9)   Forest preserves, Conservation Districts, marinas, public parks,
commercial camp grounds;
      (10)   Golf courses and golf driving ranges;
      (11)   Lakes (artificial) over three acres;
      (12)   Libraries and museums;
      (13)   Motels and tourist courts; provided, that gravel or other improved
surface access roads shall be constructed to parking areas and that parking
areas off the public right-of-way shall be furnished at the rate of one parking
place for each dwelling unit;
      (14)   Open air illumination for outdoor games such as baseball, football
or other uses where glare and noise might unreasonably affect surrounding
property or highway traffic;
      (15)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (16)   Private pistol or rifle ranges;
      (17)   Railroad trackage, including roundhouses and repair shops;
      (18)   Rooming and boarding or tourist houses providing lodging and/or
meals for more than six persons;
      (19)   Sanitariums;
      (20)   Saw mills;
      (21)   Seed processing plants;
      (22)   Sewage treatment plants;
      (23)   Signs (illuminated);
      (24)   Skeet or trap shooting if not closer than 1,320 feet to any
residence or farm group;
      (25)   Temporary asphalt plants and crushed rock storage;
      (26)   Veterinarian office, animal hospitals, animal boarding and
kennels;
      (27)   Water works; and
      (28)   Solar arrays, solar farms, solar facilities and other similar
commercial facilities designed to generate electricity from solar energy, and
for the purpose of selling wholesale or retail all or a portion of the
electricity generated thereby. The City Council may impose conditions and grant
exceptions to the rules and regulations of this code as may be necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare and individual property rights.
(Ord. passed 10-27-1994; Ord. 2023-5, passed 6-14-2023; Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-
15-2024)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 153.090 INTRODUCTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be subject to such exceptions,
additions or modifications as herein provided by the following supplementary
regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.091 AREA.
   (A)   Reduced lot area. No lot shall be so reduced in area that any required
open space will be smaller than prescribed in the regulations for the district
in which said lot is located. Whenever such reduction in lot area occurs, any
building is located on said lot shall not thereafter be used until such
building is altered, reconstructed or relocated so as to comply with the area
and yard requirements applicable thereto.
   (B)   Dwelling on small lots. Notwithstanding the limitations imposed by any
other provisions of this chapter, the Board of Appeals may permit erection of a
dwelling on any lot, separately owned or under contract of sale and containing,
at the time of the passage of this chapter, an area or a width smaller than
that required for a one-family dwelling.
   (C)   Visibility at intersections. On a corner in any residence district no
fence, wall, hedge, earth terraces, parking facilities or other structure or
plant which would obstruct motor vehicle visibility of traffic approaching the
corner or intersection, shall be erected, placed or maintained within the
triangular area formed by the intersecting lot lines nearest the street
intersection, and a straight line joining said lot lines at points which are 20
feet distant from the point of intersecting lot lines.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.092 YARDS.
   (A)   Terraces. A terrace shall not be considered as a part of the structure
in determining the lot area if such terrace is unroofed.
   (B)   Unenclosed porches; one story. An unenclosed, one-story porch, erected
on piers, even though roofed over, may project into a required front, side or
rear yard area a distance not to exceed six feet and shall not be considered in
the determination of the size of yards or lot coverage; provided, however, that
such porch shall not be closer than four feet at any point to any lot line, and
that no building shall have such porches projecting into more than required
side yard.
   (C)   Enclosed porches. Any two-story or any enclosed porch, or one having a
solid foundation and capable of being enclosed, shall be considered a part of
the building in the determination of the size of yard or lot coverage.
   (D)   Projecting architectural features. The space in any required yard
shall be open and unobstructed except for the ordinary projection of window
sills, belt courses, cornices, eaves, roof overhanging and other architectural
features of residential properties; provided, however, that such features shall
not project more than a maximum of four feet from the exterior wall of the
building and provided that such features do not reach closer than four feet
from the side lot lines.
   (E)   Projecting architectural features of business properties. All
overhanging canopies, marquees, awnings and similar structures must be at least
six feet, eight inches above the sidewalk at any point, and overhanging signs
must be a minimum of eight feet above the sidewalk at any point. Such
structures cannot project nearer than one foot from any driveway.
   (F)   Fire escapes. Open fire escapes may extend into any required yard not
more than four feet six inches.
   (G)   Location of accessory buildings. Any accessory building within 12 feet
of a residential building shall be at least five feet from the side lot line.
Any accessory building more than 12 feet from a residential building shall be
at least three feet from the rear lot line, except where there is an alley it
must be at least five feet from the rear lot where the doors open to the alley.
   (H)   Fences and walls.
      (1)   Location. Fences and walls, including all the posts, bases and
other structural parts must be located completely within the boundaries of the
lot on which it is located. No fence or wall may be located closer than 12
inches to a public sidewalk or curb or 24 inches on any alley.
      (2)   Measurement. The height of fences and walls is measured from the
ground level at the base of the fence to the highest point of the fence or
wall.
      (3)   Maximum height. Front yard and corner side is four feet. Side yard
is six feet.
      (4)   Design and construction.
         (a)   Permitted materials in residential and agricultural districts.
            1.   Wood;
            2.   Wrought iron;
            3.   Vinyl (that is designed to look like wood or wrought iron);
            4.   Brick;
            5.   Stone;
            6.   Chain link, except in the front and corner side yard; and
            7.   Other similar materials approved by the Zoning Committee.
         (b)   Permitted materials in business and manufacturing districts.
            1.   Wood;
            2.   Wrought iron;
            3.   Vinyl (that is designed to look like wood or wrought iron);
            4.   Brick;
            5.   Stone; and
            6.   Chain link. When chain link fencing is used along a front or
corner side lot line in a business or manufacturing district, the side fence
nearest the street right-of-way must be planted with shrubs with a minimum of
three feet in height.
         (c)   Finished side. All fences and walls must be constructed with the
finished surface facing the exterior of the property with support posts placed
to the inside, except in such cases where the posts or support columns are an
integral part of its aesthetic design.
         (d)   Barbed wire and electric fences. Barbed wire, razor wire,
concertina and the electrification of fencing are prohibited.
         (e)   Maintenance. It is the responsibility of the owner and/or
occupant of the property where a fence or wall is erected to maintain the
structure in good repair and structurally sound condition at all times, with no
loose, rolling or rusting materials, and with all structural components
attached in accordance with common building practices. If a fence is not in
compliance with this section, the Zoning Officer may order the fence to be
repaired, replaced or removed.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960; Ord. 2009-4, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 153.093 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   Whenever the expression “off-street parking space” is hereinafter
referred to, it shall pertain to a space of 180 square feet of appropriate
dimensions for the parking of an automobile, exclusive of the access drives or
aisles hereto.
      (2)   Whenever the word “employees” or the expression “number of
employees” is hereinafter referred to, it shall mean the greatest number of
persons to be employed in the building in question during any season of the
year in any time of the day or night.
      (3)   Whenever the word “seats” is hereinafter referred to, it shall mean
the seating capacity of a particular building as determined by the
specification and plans filed with the Zoning Enforcing Officers; in the event
individual seats are not provided, each 20 inches of benches or similar seating
accommodations shall be considered as one seat for the purposes of this
chapter.
   (B)   Off-street parking required.
      (1)   In the use of land for residential, commercial, industrial or any
other purposes, no residential, commercial, industrial or any other building or
structure shall be erected and no major repairs made to an existing
residential, commercial, industrial or any other building or structure, unless
there already be in existence upon the lot, or unless provision is made for the
location on the lot, concurrently with this erecting or major repairs, off-
street parking on the basis of the following minimum requirements.
         (a)   Dwelling, including single-, two-family, group houses, row
houses and apartment houses, and all other similar structures devoted to
habitation: at least one off-street parking space for each dwelling unit.
         (b)   Hotels, including clubs, lodging houses, tourist homes and
houses, dormitories, sororities, fraternities, and all other similar places
offering over-night accommodations: at least one off-street parking for each
one guest room.
         (c)   Hospitals, including sanitariums, asylums, orphanages,
convalescent homes, homes for the aged and infirm, and all other similar
institutions: at least one off-street parking space for each four patients
beds, plus at least one additional off-street parking space for each staff and
visiting doctor, plus at least one additional off-street parking space for each
three employees (including nurses).
         (d)   Restaurants, including bars, taverns, night clubs lunch
counters, diners, and all other similar dining or drinking establishments: at
least one off-street parking space for each four seats provided for patrons’
use.
         (e)   Theaters, including motion picture houses: at least one off-
street parking space for each six seats provided for patrons’ use.
         (f)   Places of public assembly, including private clubs, lodges, and
fraternal buildings not providing overnight accommodations assembly halls,
exhibition halls convention halls, skating rinks, dance halls, bowling alleys,
sport arenas, stadiums, gymnasiums, amusement parks, race tracks, fair grounds,
circus grounds, funeral homes, mortuaries, community centers, libraries,
museums and all other similar places of relatively infrequent public assembly:
at least one off-street parking space for each four seats provided for patrons’
use.
         (g)   Auditoriums: at least one off-street parking space for each
eight seats provided for patrons’ use.
         (h)   Churches: at least one off-street parking space for each eight
fixed seats in the main worship hall of the church.
         (i)   Schools: at least one off-street parking space for each eight
seats provided in the auditorium or one off-street parking space for each four
seats provided in the gymnasium, whichever is the greatest.
         (j)   Wholesale, manufacturing and industrial plants, including
warehouses and storage buildings and yards, public utility building contractor
equipment and lumber yards, research laboratories, business service
establishments such as blueprinting, printing and engraving, soft drink
bottling establishments, fabricating plants and all other structures devoted to
similar mercantile or industrial pursuits: at least one off-street parking
space for each five employees.
         (k)   Retail establishments, including personal service shops,
equipment or repair shops, gasoline or other motor fuel stations, motor vehicle
sales and/or repair establishments, all retail stores and businesses, and banks
or other financial and lending institutions: at least one off-street parking
space for each 600 square feet of gross floor area or intended to be used for
service to the public as customers, patrons and clients.
         (l)   Office buildings, including commercial, governmental and
professional buildings and medical and dental clinics: at least one off-street
parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area used or intended to
be used for service to the public as customers, patrons and clients.
      (2)   On the same premises with every building devoted to retail trade,
retail and wholesale food markets, warehouses, supply houses, wholesale or
manufacturing trade, hotels, hospitals, laundries, dry cleaning establishments
or other buildings where large amounts of goods are received or shipped,
erected in any district after the date of the adoption of this chapter, there
shall be provided loading and unloading space as follows:
         (a)   Building of 10,000 square feet of floor area, one off-street
loading space plus one additional off-street loading and unloading space for
each additional 14,000 square feet of area; and
         (b)   Each loading space shall be not less than 14 feet in width and
50 feet in length.
      (3)   In case of use not specifically mentioned, the requirements for
off-street parking or off-street loading for a use which is so mentioned, and
to which said use is similar, shall apply.
      (4)   The off-street parking facilities required for the uses mentioned
in this chapter, and for other similar uses, shall be on the same lot or parcel
of land as the structure they are intended to serve, but in case of
nonresidential uses when practical difficulties prevent their establishment
upon the same lot, the required parking facilities to which they are
appurtenant.
      (5)   No part of an off-street parking facilities required for any
building or use for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this
chapter shall be included as part of an off-street parking area similarly
required for another building or use unless the type of structure indicates
that the periods of usage of such structures will not be simultaneous with each
other.
      (6)   In case of mixed uses, the total requirement for off-street loading
space shall be the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed
separately as specified in the preceding sections, and the off-street loading
space for one use shall not be considered as providing the required off-street
loading space for any other use.
      (7)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the joint use
of off-street parking or off-street loading for two or more buildings or uses,
if the total of such spaces when used together shall not be less than the sum
of the requirement for the various individual uses computed separately in
accordance with the preceding sections.
      (8)   All off-street parking facilities required pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be surfaced with asphalt, bituminous cement
binder pavement or gravel if treated in such a manner so as to provide a
durable and dustless surface water. Any lighting in connection with off-street
parking shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from all adjoining
residence buildings, residence zones or streets.
      (9)   No certificate of occupancy will be issued upon completion of any
building or repair operations unless and until all off-street parking
requirements, shown upon the plans, or made a part of the building permit,
shall be in place and ready for use.
(Ord. passed 2-25-1960)
§ 153.094 ZERO LOT LINES; TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   With prior approval of the City Council, property owners may divide the
ownership of two-family dwellings so that each unit may be owned separately
only in accordance with this section.
   (A)   Yards required. Side yards for interior common boundaries of two-
family dwellings may be zero. INTERIOR COMMON BOUNDARY shall mean the boundary
between individual units of a two-family dwelling.
   (B)   Sewer connections. Two-family dwellings must have separate sanitary
sewer connections according to city code. The sewer service shall be separate
to the property line for each dwelling unit. The sewer service may be combined
in one sewer at the right-of-way line, with connections to be on public right-
of-way. All pipes shall be sized in accordance with IEPA regulations and
cleanouts shall be installed at the right-of-way line. This section shall apply
only to two-family dwellings constructed after January 1, 2001.
   (C)   Applicability of code. Except as specifically modified in this
section, all requirements of the applicable zoning district and of the city
code as a whole shall apply to zero lot line developments.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.095 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES PERMITTED AS A CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   Purpose and scope. The primary intent of this section is to regulate
the location and use of telecommunications towers, antennas, and related
equipment (“telecommunications facilities”) to be located within the city.
Therefore, the purpose of this section shall be to:
      (1)   Comply with all federal and state regulations regarding the
placement, use, and maintenance of telecommunications facilities;
      (2)   Encourage the continued improvement of wireless telecommunications
service in the city;
      (3)   Minimize, to the extent permitted by law, the proliferation of
unsightly towers and equipment throughout the city;
      (4)   Promote both property maintenance and renovation of
telecommunications equipment;
      (5)   Recognize the commercial communication requirements of all sectors
of the business and residential communities.
   (B)   Zoning districts permitted. Telecommunications facilities are
permitted in all zoning districts within the city as a conditional use, subject
to the satisfaction of the requirements imposed by this section.
   (C)   Priority.  
      (1)   Telecommunications towers and equipment locations are subject to
the following order of priority:
         (a)   Public property, as defined within § 155.03 of the
Telecommunications Towers and Equipment Code, then;
         (b)   Industrial I-1 and I-2 and agricultural zoned property, but if
no such properties are commercially feasible for purchase or lease by the
applicant for the conditional use permit, then;
         (c)   Commercial C-l, C-2, and C-3 zoned property, but if no such
properties are commercially feasible for purchase or lease by the applicant for
the conditional use permit, then;
         (d)   Residential R-l, R-2, R-2A, R-3, and R-4 zoned property
(collectively an “avoidance site”), except in the case of public property.
      (2)   A telecommunication tower and equipment typically shall not be
located in an avoidance site, except in the case of public property, unless the
applicant can demonstrate, by a written statement from a licensed engineer
certifying that this regulation “has the effect of prohibiting” service as
provided for in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended from time to
time, unless a tower is constructed in an avoidance site. See § 155.05(C)(8)(d)
of the Telecommunications Towers and Equipment Code.
   (D)   Application.
      (1)   An application requesting a conditional use permit for the
construction of a telecommunications facility shall be submitted to the city’s
Zoning Board of Appeals for review. Following a public hearing, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall then review the application and present it to the City
Council with its recommendation regarding the approval or disapproval of the
conditional use permit. The City Council shall consider the Zoning Board of
Appeals’s recommendations regarding the application, and shall vote on the
application at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting or at a special
meeting of City Council properly noticed, which vote shall be binding and final
regarding the decision to grant or deny the conditional use application.
      (2)   The applicant must serve, personally or via U.S. Mail, all adjacent
landowners with a notice of the above-described public hearing no later than 15
days prior to the hearing. Proof of service upon the adjacent landowners shall
be provided by the applicant to the Zoning Board of Appeals at or prior to the
public hearing, and a finding shall be made whether the proof of service was
filed in the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation. For purposes of this
section, ADJACENT LANDOWNERS shall include property owners directly adjacent to
the proposed location or those directly across any street or alley from the
proposed location.
   (E)   Grounds for denial of application. The City Council shall issue a
final and binding determination as to whether to grant or deny the application
for a conditional use permit for a telecommunications facility. Applications
may be denied on any of the following grounds:
      (1)   Finding that the proposed telecommunications facility would be
detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare due to the proposed site
location;
      (2)   Finding that the proposed telecommunications facility would destroy
the essential nature or character of the location of the proposed site;
      (3)   Finding that the proposed telecommunications facility would cause
actual harm to a location with historical or cultural significance;
      (4)   Finding that the proposed telecommunications facility would cause
actual harm to the environment due to the location of the proposed site;
      (5)   Finding that the proposed telecommunications facility would be or
is noncompliant with any applicable laws and regulations, including, but not
limited to, any other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2023-8, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not specifically provided, shall be fined not less than $250 or more than $750
for any code violation occurrence where another fine is not specifically
provided, and each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 154: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES DEPLOYMENT CODE
Section
   
154.01    Title
   
154.02    Purpose and scope
   
154.03    Definitions
   
154.04    Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
154.05    Collocation requirements and conditions
   
154.06    Design standards
   
154.07    Safety standards
   
154.08    Fall zone; setback requirements
   
154.09    Design, safety, fall zone, and setback approval
   
154.10    Application fees
   
154.11    Exceptions to applicability
   
154.12    Pre-existing agreements
   
154.13    Annual recurring rate
   
154.14    Abandonment
   
154.15    Dispute resolution
   
154.16    Indemnification
   
154.17    Insurance
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Code
of the City of Lacon, Illinois, and may be so cited and pleaded and shall be
referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations, standards,
and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the city's jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of-way on
property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or industrial use, in a
manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible
without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application under this chapter.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.  CABLE SERVICE, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; INFORMATION SERVICE, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
MOBILE SERVICE, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(33), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A CABLE OPERATOR, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a PROVIDER OF INFORMATION SERVICE, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.1.a.i
through VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide rogrammatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR
Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the city
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of- way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume, or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles, or
coaxial or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles, and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES.  Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting, wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.04 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in §
154.05(I), regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning
district, or outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer to collocate a small wireless facility. An
application shall be received and processed bythe Zoning Board of Appeals
Officer, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions and
requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements.
         (a)   A wireless provider shall provide the following information to
the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer, together with the small cell facilities
permit application, as a condition of any permit application to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
            1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989;
            2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted, or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
            3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a licensed structural
engineer, as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering
Practice Act of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the
application as it is proposed to be installed;
            4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
            6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant's knowledge.
         (b)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the Zoning Board of
AppealsOfficer or the Zoning Board of Appeals fails to approve or deny the
application within 60 days after the submission of a completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Zoning
Board of Appeals Officer in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed
approved remedy no sooner than 45 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
sixtieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Zoning Board of Appeals
Officer. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Zoning Board of Appeals Officer's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Zoning Board of Appeals
Officer or the Zoning Board of Appeals fails to approve or deny the application
within 90 days after the submission of a completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Zoning
Board of Appeals Officer in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed
approved remedy no sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Zoning Board of Appeals
Officer. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Zoning Board of Appeals Officer's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals Officer shall deny an
application which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer determines that
applicable codes, ordinances, or regulations that concern public safety, or the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein require that the
utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before the requested
collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility
pole or wireless support structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The Zoning Board of Appeals Officer shall document the basis
for a denial, including the specific code provisions or application conditions
on which the denial is based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or
before the day the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
Zoning Board of Appeals Officer and resubmit the revised application once
within 30 days after notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying
an additional application fee. The Zoning Board of Appeals Officer shall
approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the applicant
resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to resubmit the
revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the application to
submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement of the Zoning
Board of Appeals Officer's review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer
in writing of its intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed
approved basis, which may be submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application.
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the Zoning Board
of Appeals Officer shall determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Zoning Board of
Appeals Officer must specifically identify the missing information. An
application shall be deemed complete if the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer
fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all
documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in the city's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the Zoning Board of Appeals
Officer.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Zoning Board
of Appeals Officer sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant
provides the missing information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state, or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities, if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer may remove small wireless facility
collocations from the application and treat separately small wireless facility
collocations for which incomplete information has been provided or that do not
qualify for consolidated treatment or that are denied. The city or Zoning Board
of Appeals Officer may issue separate permits for each collocation that is
approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
Zoning Board of Appeals Officer makes a finding that the small wireless
facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the
applicable city codes or any provision, condition, or requirement contained in
this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices, to the Zoning Board of
Appeals Officer by personal delivery at the city's designated place of
business, by regular mail postmarked on the date due, or by any other commonly
used means, including electronic mail.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.05 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Public safety space reservation. The Zoning Board of Appeals Office or
the City Engineer may reserve space on municipal utility poles for future
public safety uses, for the city's electric utility uses, or both, but a
reservation of space may not preclude the collocation of a small wireless
facility unless the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer or City Engineer reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair, and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition
and good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents, or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   (C)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
      (1)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
      (3)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
      (4)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 CFR Parts 22.970 through 22.973, and 47 CFR Parts 90.672 through
90.675.
      (5)   The Zoning Board of Appeals Officer or Mayor may terminate a permit
for a small wireless facility based on such interference if the wireless
provider is not in compliance with the Code of Federal Regulations cited in
division (C)(4). Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall
constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   (1)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      (2)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      (3)   For purposes of this division, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   (E)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and local
code provisions that concern public safety.
   (F)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards that
are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable stealth,
concealment, and aesthetic requirements that are setforth in a city ordinance,
written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan, or other written
design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on
a historic landmark or in a historic district. The wireless provider shall also
comply with any design, safety, setback, or fall zone standards set forth in
this chapter.
   (G)   Alternate placements.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, a wireless provider shall not
be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility
pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple
antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer or City Engineer may
propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility
pole or existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
      (2)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Zoning Board
of Appeals Officer or City Engineer, the applicant shall provide written
certification describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost
reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in this division.
   (H)   Height limitations.
      (1)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
      (2)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer
or City Engineer, that is located within 300 feet of the new or replacement
utility pole or wireless support structure and that is in the same right-of-way
within the jurisdictional boundary of the city, provided the Zoning Board of
Appeals Officer may designate which intersecting right-of-way within 300 feet
of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the
height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (I)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height for
a new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure in excess of
the above height limitations on which the small wireless facility is proposed
for collocation, the applicant shall apply for a special use in conformance
with procedures, terms, and conditions set forth in Chapter
153.
   (J)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   (K)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   (L)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   (M)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within 60 days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed 360 days after
issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the Zoning
Board of Appeals Officer grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.06 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   In addition to any other applicable designs standards as set forth in an
applicable code or law, a wireless provider shall comply with the following
design standards.
   (A)   Screening. Whenever any equipment or appurtenances (for example,
cabinet, controller, and the like) are to be installed, screening must be
installed to minimize the visibility of such equipment or appurtenance and
shall not be permitted to obstruct sight lines or to create other traffic or
safety problems.
   (B)   Color and stealth. All small wireless facilities, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the utility pole, wireless support structure, or other
structure on which such facility or equipment is mounted, placed, or
collocated. The color must be comprised of non-reflective materials which blend
with the materials and colors of thesurrounding area and structures. The
applicant shall use good faith efforts to employ reasonable stealth techniques
to conceal the appearance of a small wireless facility or its related equipment
and appurtenances.
   (C)   Utility poles; wireless support structures; extensions. Any utility
pole extension or wireless support structure extension shall not be wood and
shall blend with the color of the utility pole or wireless support structure
upon which such extension is mounted. Any new utility pole or replacement
utility pole shall not be wood, unless agreed to otherwise by the applicant and
the city, and shall blend with the color, style, and structure of any
surrounding utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (D)   Size. The applicant shall make good faith efforts to ensure the
silhouette of a small wireless facility and its related equipment and
appurtenances are reduced to minimize visual impact.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.07 SAFETY STANDARDS.
   In addition to any other applicable safety standards as set forth in an
applicable code or law, a wireless provider shall comply with the following
safety standards.
   (A)   A small wireless facility and any related equipment or appurtenance
shall not be collocated in a manner so as to obstruct or interfere with a
motorist's view of roadways, nor shall any small wireless facility and any
related equipment or appurtenance be collocated in a manner which obstructs the
view of a motorist at an intersection in the "visibility triangle," meaning
within the triangular area formed by the intersecting lot lines nearest the
street intersection, and a straight line joining said lot lines at points which
are 20 feet distant from the point of intersecting lot line.
   (B)   All small wireless facilities shall comply with tornado design
standards as contained in this code or EIA-TIA 222 (latest version), whichever
is stricter.
   (C)   Any and all transmission cables and cable trays deployed horizontally
above the ground between any number of small wireless facilities and its
equipment, between any number of small wireless facilities, or between any
number of small wireless facilities’ equipment, shall be at least eight feet
above the ground at all points.
   (D)   Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the remainder of the small
wireless facility must be installed in accordance with the National Electrical
Code, National Electrical Safety Code, and any other applicable code adopted by
the city and in force at the time of the installation of the small wireless
facility. Any wiring must be covered with an appropriate cover. No wiring or
cabling serving the facility will be allowed to interfere with any existing
uses.
   (E)   No signage shall be permitted on any small wireless facility or its
related equipment or appurtenances other than signs that are required for
public safety purposes, by law, or by the FCC, FAA, or other similar
governmental agency.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.08 FALL ZONE; SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to any other applicable fall zone or setback standards as set
forth in an applicable code or law, a wireless provider shall comply with the
following fall zone and set back requirements.
   (A)   Fall zone. No small wireless facility shall be collocated any closer
to a habitable structure or outdoor area where people congregate than its fall
zone. For purposes of this section, the fall zone shall be 110% of the height
of the small wireless facility, the utility pole to which it is attached, the
wireless support structure to which it is attached, or any combination or
variation thereof, whichever shall result in the largest fall zone.
   (B)   Setback. All small wireless facilities including mounts, equipment
shelters, related equipment, or appurtenances shall comply with the minimum
building and landscape/screening setback requirements of the applicable zoning
district as set forth in Chapter 153; provided, however, that the following
setbacks apply to the height of the small wireless facility, utility pole, or
wireless support structure above ground level, or, if such small wireless
facility, utility pole, or wireless support structure is attached to a
building, the height from the point of attachment.
      (1)   No small wireless facility, utility pole, or wireless support
structure shall be set back a distance less than its height.
      (2)   No small wireless facility, utility pole, or wireless support
structure shall be set back a distance less than its height from the nearest
overhead electrical power line which serves more than one dwelling or place of
business.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.09 DESIGN, SAFETY, FALL ZONE, AND SETBACK APPROVAL.
   The approval of all design, safety, fall zone, and setback requirements, as
set forth in §§
154.05 through
154.08 of this chapter, shall be submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals
Officer for approval. If denied, the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer must
notify the applicant in writing of the denial. The applicant may appeal the
denial to the Zoning Board of Appeals within 15 days of the notice of the
denial. The Zoning Board of Appeals decision on the design, safety, fall zone,
and setback requirements may be appealed within 15 days of the notice of denial
to the City Council. The City Council has final authority on any decision
concerning the design, safety, fall zone, and setback requirements and any such
decision is final.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.10 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows:
   (A)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $500 for an application to
collocate up to five small wireless facilities on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $100 for each small wireless facility
thereafter addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than five
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
   (B)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $ 1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   (1)   The city shall not require an application, approval, or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Zoning Board of Appeals Officer at least ten days prior
to the planned replacement and includes equipment specifications for the
replacement of equipment consistent with §
154.04(B)(1)(d); or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Zoning Board of
Appeals Officer to work within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic
patterns or require lane closures.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.11 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small
wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail, or any other public commuter rail
service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities
Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the provisions of § 16-
108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning given
to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement to obtain a
franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.12 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city's utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees, and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees, and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this division.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.13 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the City Clerk an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals the greater of $200 per year or the actual, direct,
and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of space on the
city utility pole.
   (B)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.14 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the City Attorney notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the City Attorney to the owner at the last known address
of the wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within
90 days of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City Clerk if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.15 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Marshall County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.16 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 154.17 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Zoning Board
of Appeals Officer evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-14-2019)
CHAPTER 155: TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND EQUIPMENT CODE
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Purpose and scope
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Collocation requirements
   
155.05   Tower construction requirements
   
155.06   Tower and antenna design requirements
   
155.07   Tower setbacks
   
155.08   Tower height
   
155.09   Tower lighting
   
155.10   Fencing for towers
   
155.11   Signs and advertising
   
155.12   Accessory utility buildings
   
155.13   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers
   
155.14   Interference with public safety telecommunications
   
155.15   Application materials
   
155.16   Conflict
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Telecommunications Towers and Equipment
Code of the City of Lacon, Illinois, and may be so cited and pleaded, and shall
be referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The primary intent of this chapter is to regulate telecommunications towers
and equipment to be located within the city. Therefore, the purpose of this
chapter shall be to:
   (A)   Comply with all federal and state regulations regarding the placement,
use, and maintenance of telecommunications towers and equipment;
   (B)   Encourage the continued improvement of wireless telecommunications
service in the city;
   (C)   Minimize, to the extent permitted by law, the proliferation of
unsightly towers and equipment throughout the city;
   (D)   Promote both property maintenance and the renovation of
telecommunications equipment;
   (E)   Encourage the collocation of telecommunications towers by multiple
providers so as to reduce the number of towers needed within the city;
   (F)   Ensure that these regulations are compatible with the zoning
regulations;
   (G)   Recognize the commercial communication requirements of all sectors of
the business and residential community.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device, not exceeding 15 feet in height, that is
used for the collection or transmission of electromagnetic waves, including,
but not limited to, directional antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and
satellite dishes, and omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas.
   ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (ATTACHED WCF). An antenna attached
to an existing building or structure, which shall include, but not be limited
to, utility poles, signs, water towers, with any accompanying pole or device
that attaches the antenna to the existing building or structure and associated
connection cables, and an accessory building that may be located either inside
or outside of the attachment structure.
   COLLOCATION or SITE SHARING. Use of a common WCF or common site by two or
more wireless license holders, or by one wireless license holder for more than
one type of communications technology, and/or placement of a WCF on a structure
owned or operated by a utility or other public entity.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services, that are marketed to the general public.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A site or property owned or controlled by the city, Midland
Community Unit School District #7, the Lacon Public Library District, the
Lacon-Sparland Fire Protection District, Lacon Township, Hopewell Township, or
any property owned by a public body.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure designed and constructed specifically to
support an antenna, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice)
tower, guy-wire-support tower and other similar structures. Any device used to
attach an attached WCF to an existing building or structure shall be excluded
from this definition.
   TOWER.  Any ground- or roof-mounted pole, spire, antenna, structure, or
combination thereof, taller than 15 feet, including supporting lines, cables,
wires, braces and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an
antenna, meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.
   TOWER, MULTI-USER. A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than
one commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or governmental
entity.
   TOWER, SINGLE-USER. A tower to which is attached only the antennas of a
single-user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the antennas of
multiple users as required in this chapter.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION. Any personal wireless services as defined in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which includes FCC-licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services, including cellular, personal communication
services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile
radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently exist or that may be
developed in the future.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF). Any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually
consisting of antenna connection cables, an accessory building, and a support
structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.04 COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the City Council finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or previously approved tower or building,
particularly on publicly owned land within a one-half mile search radius of the
proposed tower, due to one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of all
existing or approved towers or buildings, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and all of the existing or approved towers
cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate the planned or
equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost;
      (2)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at a tower or building, as
documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer, and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
      (3)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably, as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer.
      (4)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in
order to share an existing tower or structure to adapt an existing tower or
structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development
are presumed to be unreasonable;
      (5)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
   (B)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower shall
be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to accommodate
both the applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least two
additional users if the tower is over 100 feet in height, or for at least one
additional user if the tower is over 60 feet in height. Towers must be designed
to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept
antennas mounted at varying heights.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.05 TOWER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct in a place, place or re-erect, replace or substantially repair any
tower without first making application to the city and securing a permit
therefor as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   At the time of the application, the applicant shall provide written
certification to indicate that construction, installation, and maintenance of
the antenna and tower will not create a safety hazard or damage to the property
of other persons.
   (B)   Fee.  The applicant shall pay a building permit fee in the amount of
$2,500 for any new towers and $1,000 for any new collocations.
   (C)   Construction requirements. All antennas and towers erected,
constructed, or modified within the city, and all wiring therefor, shall comply
with the following requirements.
      (1)   All applicable provisions of the city code.
      (2)   The tower shall be certified by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind-
loading requirements of the International Building Code and the Electronics
Industry Association.
      (3)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service
connection lines, no part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cable,
equipment or wires or braces in connection with either, shall at any time
extend across or over any part of the right-of-way, public street, highway,
sidewalk or property line.
      (4)   Towers and associated antennas shall be designed to conform with
accepted electrical engineering methods and practices, and to comply with the
provisions of the National Electrical Code.
      (5)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower and antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet above the ground at
all points, unless buried underground.
      (6)   Every tower affixed to the ground shall be protected to discourage
unauthorized persons from climbing the tower.
      (7)   All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements of
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as applicable.
      (8)   Antennas and towers shall not be erected in in the city in
violation of the following restrictions, unless they are specifically waived by
the City Council, after a public hearing and recommendation by the Zoning Board
of Appeals, in approving an application.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the general provisions of this chapter, and the
applicable provisions of this Title XV, the required setback for an antenna or
tower attached directly to the ground shall be equal to the height of the
antenna and tower. Those antennas and towers attached to a building and whose
base is not on the ground may be constructed, if setback a distance equal to
one-half the height of the tower, less the distance from the point of
attachment on the building to the ground.
         (b)   No tower shall exceed a height equal to the distance from the
base of the antenna and tower to the nearest overhead electrical power line
that serves more than one dwelling or place of business. Those antennas and
towers originally attached to a building, and whose base is not on the ground,
shall not exceed an overall height from the point of attachment to the top of
tower that is greater than the distance from the point of attachment to the
nearest overhead electrical power line serving more than one dwelling or
business.
         (c)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with,
corrosive-resistant material. Wood poles shall be impregnated with rot-
resistant substances.
         (d)   In a residential zoning district, except in the case of pubic
property, the applicant will provide a written statement from a licensed
engineer certifying that the applicant will be prohibited from providing
commercial wireless telecommunication services, as provided for in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended from time to time, unless a tower is
constructed in a residential zoning district.
         (e)   The applicant must request approval of a conditional use permit
from the city, pursuant to §
153.095, in all zoning districts.
      (9)   If a tower is hereafter damaged or destroyed, for any reason or
cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its former use,
location, and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit therefor,
but the tower may not be repaired or restored, except in full compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.06 TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Proposed or modified towers and antennas in all zoning districts shall meet
the following design requirements.
   (A)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state
authorities, such as the Federal Aviation Administration. For the purpose of
this subsection, CAMOUFLAGING ARCHITECTURAL TREATMENT shall consist of
disguising the applicable tower as an object that would otherwise be fully
consistent with the surrounding area, such as a tree, church steeple, or
building spire, as appropriate. The camouflaging shall disguise the existence
of the tower, while retaining the natural or improved appearance of the
surrounding area, to the maximum extent possible.
   (B)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the Zoning Board of Appeals determines that an
alternative design would better blend into the surrounding environment.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.07 TOWER SETBACKS.
   Unless restrictions are specifically waived by the City Council, after a
public hearing and recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals, all towers
shall conform with the following minimum setback requirements set forth in this
chapter and otherwise in the city code.
   (A)   Generally.  Towers shall meet the setback requirements of buildings
found in the underlying zoning district unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Residential zoning districts. Towers shall meet the setback
requirements provided in §
155.05(C)(8).
   (C)   WCFs.
      (1)   Attached WCFs are exempt from any setback standards beyond those of
the structure upon which they are attached. An attached WCF antenna may extend
up to five feet horizontally beyond the edge of the attachment structure so
long as the antenna does not encroach upon an adjoining parcel.
      (2)   Minimum setback for WCFs with support structures shall be as
follows:
Zone Setback
Zone                         Setback
Agricultural/Industrial Zone 20 feet front
                            10 feet side
                            10 feet rear
Commercial Zone              25 feet front
                            15 feet side
                            15 feet rear
Residential Zone             See §
                             155.05(C)(8)
 
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.08 TOWER HEIGHT.
   (A)   Towers placed within any residential district shall not exceed 75 feet
in height from existing grade (except for pubic property). Towers placed on
pubic property or within any industrial or commercial districts shall not
exceed 175 feet in height from existing grade or, if attached to an existing
building, 200 feet less the distance from the existing grade to the point of
attachment.
   (B)   A variation to this height requirement may be granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals after receiving an application therefor and holding a public
hearing at a regularly scheduled meeting. A variation from the height
requirement in this section shall be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals
only if the applicant establishes by clear and convincing evidence that it will
be unable to provide wireless communication services without the variation.
Under no circumstance shall a tower be erected to a height greater than that
required to provide wireless communication services.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.09 TOWER LIGHTING.
   Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display
any strobe or flashing lights unless such lighting is required by the Federal
Aviation Administration or other federal or state authority for a particular
tower.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.10 FENCING FOR TOWERS.
   Any tower exceeding 50 feet in height shall be fenced with a six-foot-high
fence. All fencing shall meet the applicable fencing requirements in the Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.11 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   Signs no larger than six square feet may display warning or equipment
information and may be placed on towers. All other signs, including signs used
for advertising purposes, are prohibited.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.12 ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS.
   All utility buildings and structures accessory to a tower shall be
architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding environment. Further,
such buildings shall meet minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning
district. Ground-mounted equipment shall be screened from view by suitable
vegetation and/or landscaping, except where a design of non-vegetative
screening better reflects and compliments the architectural character of the
surrounding area, in which case, such non-vegetative screening shall be
utilized.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.13 ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS.
   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers shall be removed as
follows.
   (A)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations. A copy of the relevant
portions of a signed lease, which require the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the site, shall be
submitted at the time of application. In the event that a tower is not removed
in a timely manner as provided herein, the tower and associated facilities may
be removed by the city, with the cost of removal assessed against a bond or
other financial security as provided under §
155.15(E)(5).
   (B)   Unused portions of towers above utilized communications or other
electrical equipment shall be removed within six months of the time of antenna
relocation. The replacement of previously removed portions of a tower requires
the issuance of a new building permit and a special use permit as applicable.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.14 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   No new or existing telecommunication service shall interfere with public
safety telecommunications. All applications for new service shall be
accompanied by an intermodulation study, which provides a technical evaluation
of existing and proposed transmissions, and indicates all potential
interference problems. Before the introduction of new services or changes in
existing service, telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least
ten calendar days in advance of such changes, and allow the city to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.15 APPLICATION MATERIALS.
   All development applications for towers shall include written documentation
evidencing compliance with each provision of this chapter, as well as the
applicable zoning regulations, in addition to the following supplemental
information.
   (A)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer that:
      (1)   Describes the tower height and design, including a cross section in
elevation;
      (2)   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas;
      (3)   Describes the tower’s capacity, including the number and type of
antennas that it can accommodate;
      (4)   Documents the steps the applicant will take to avoid interference
with established public safety telecommunications;
      (5)   Includes an engineer’s stamp and registration number;
      (6)   Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request.
   (B)   Architectural drawings, depicting the constructed tower with
camouflaging treatment set in the surrounding area. These drawings shall
include at least one perspective each from the north, south, east, and west.
   (C)   An overhead map of the site, showing a one-mile radius of the subject
tower’s location, as well as the location of each of the applicant’s existing
and planned future tower sites.
   (D)   For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a letter
of intent committing the tower owner and his or her successors to allow the
shared use of the tower, if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
   (E)   Before a building permit is issued, the following supplemental
information shall be provided:
      (1)   Proof that the proposed tower complies with regulations
administered by the Federal Aviation Administration;
      (2)   Proof that the proposed tower complies with the emission standards
promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, ANSI and IEEE;
      (3)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer that
demonstrates the tower’s compliance with the aforesaid structural and
electrical standards;
      (4)   Technological evidence indicating that the height of the tower
requested is the minimum necessary to fulfill the site’s function;
      (5)   Proof of a bond or financial security sufficient to provide for the
cost of removal in the case of abandonment as described within §
155.13(A) and (B).
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
§ 155.16 CONFLICT.
   If any portion of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any other
provision of any zoning, building, fire safety, or other ordinance of the city
code, the provision that establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 9-13-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REZONING
TABLE I: REZONING
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2015-23  12-14-2015  Changes zoning of certain real estate from C-2 (General
                     Retail) to C-3 (Service)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                       Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                     10.02,
                                   95.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                     10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                     10.02,
                                   95.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                     10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                        10.04
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.               32.18
5 ILCS 180/1 et seq.               10.02
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.              33.11
65 ILCS 5                          10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                    10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                    10.99,
                                   151.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1                  10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5                  95.15
65 ILCS 5/8-11-22 (Repealed)       115.15
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                 151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                  151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                  151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                  151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-80-18                 150.44
65 ILCS 5/11-139-8                 52.122
65 ILCS 20/0.01 et seq.            50.06
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)               96.02
220 ILCS 5/21-401                  96.02
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.              96.16
220 ILCS 65/4                      96.05
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.             52.073
230 ILCS 40                        114.22
235 ILCS                           114.26
235 ILCS 5/1 et seq.               95.15
235 ILCS 5/6-21(a)                 114.09
415 ILCS 5                         151.06
415 ILCS 5/4                       51.44
505 ILCS 89                        115.02
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.           96.02
625 ILCS 5/1-188                   10.02
625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 5/11-502 76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1 et seq.       76.03
625 ILCS 5/12-709                  76.03
720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.           95.15
720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.            95.15
720 ILCS 5/12-15 et seq.           95.15
720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.            95.15
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.            95.15
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                  95.15
720 ILCS 5/24-1.6                  95.15
720 ILCS 5/25.1                    95.15
720 ILCS 5/26-1                    95.15
720 ILCS 5/28-1                    95.15
720 ILCS 5/47-5                    95.15
720 ILCS 5/47-10                   95.15
720 ILCS 5/47-15                   95.15
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.             95.15
720 ILCS 570/40 et seq.            95.15
765 ILCS 205/2                     151.08
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.            114.04
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1                30.01
2-1                32.13
2-2                32.13
2-3                32.13
2-4                32.13
2-5                32.13
3-1-1              31.01
3-1-2              31.02
3-1-3              31.03
3-1-4              31.04
3-2-1              31.15
3-2-2              31.16
3-2-3              31.17
3-2-4              31.18
3-2-5              31.19
3-2-6              31.20
3-2-7              31.21
3-2-8              31.22
3-2-9              31.23
4-2                32.14
4-3                32.14
4-4                32.14
4-5                32.14
4-6                32.14
4-8                32.14
4-9                32.14
4-10               32.14
4-11               32.14
4-12               32.14
5-1                32.15
5-2                32.15
5-3                32.15
5-4                32.15
5-5                32.15
5-6                32.15
5-7                32.15
5-8                32.15
5-9                32.15
6-1                33.01
6-2                33.02
6-3                33.03
6-4                33.04
6-5                33.05
6-6                33.06
6-7                33.07
6-8                33.08
6-9                33.09
6-10               33.10
7-1                32.16
7-2                32.17
8-1-1              32.01
8-1-2              32.02
8-1-3              32.03
8-1-4              32.04
8-1-5              32.05
8-1-6              32.06
8-1-7              32.07
8-1-8              32.08
8-1-9              32.09
8-1-11             32.10
8-1-12             32.11
8-1-13             32.12
8-4-1              30.02
8-4-2              30.03
8-4-3              30.04
8-4-4              30.05
8-4-5              30.06
9-1-1              92.01
9-1-2              92.02
9-1-3              92.03
9-1-4              92.04
9-1-5              92.05
9-1-6              92.06
9-1-7              92.07
9-1-8              92.08
9-1-9              92.09
9-1-10             92.10
9-1-11             92.11
9-1-12             92.12
9-1-13             92.13
9-1-14             92.14
9-1-15             92.15
9-1-16             92.16
9-1-17             92.17
9-1-18             92.18
9-1-19             92.19
9-2-1              93.01
9-2-2              93.02
9-2-3              93.03
9-2-4              93.04
9-2-5              93.05
9-2-6              93.06
9-2-7              93.07
9-2-8              93.08
9-3-1              94.01
9-3-2              94.02
9-3-3              94.03
9-3-5              94.04
10-1-1             110.01
10-1-2             110.02
10-1-3             110.03
10-1-4             110.04
10-1-5             110.05
10-1-6             110.06
10-1-7             110.07
10-1-8             110.08
10-1-9             110.09
10-1-10            110.10
10-1-11            110.11
10-1-12            110.12
10-1-13            110.13
10-1-14            110.14
11-1-1             112.01
11-1-2             112.02
11-1-3             112.03
11-1-6             112.04
11-1-8             112.05
11-1-9             112.06
11-1-10            112.07
11-1-11            112.08
11-1-12            112.09
11-1-13            112.10
11-1-14            112.11
11-1-15            112.12
11-1-16            112.13
11-1-17            112.14
11-4-1             75.01
11-4-2             75.02
11-4-3             75.03
11-4-4             75.04
11-4-5             75.99
11-5-1             75.15
11-5-2             75.16
11-5-3             75.17
11-5-5             75.99
13-1-1             Ch. 78, Sch. I
13-5-1             111.01
13-5-2             111.01
13-5-3             111.01
13-5-4             111.01
13-5-5             111.01
13-5-6             111.01
13-7-1             111.02
13-7-2             111.02
13-7-3             111.02
13-7-4             111.02
13-7-5             111.02
13-9-1             111.03
13-9-2             111.03
13-9-3             111.03
13-9-4             111.03
13-9-5             111.03
13-9-6             111.03
13-9-7             111.03
13-9-8             111.03
13-9-9             111.03
13-9-10            111.03
14-1-4             91.20
14-1-9             91.12
14-6-4             91.05
14-2-1             91.11
18-1-1             50.01
18-1-2             50.02
18-1-3             50.03
18-1-4             50.04
18-1-5             50.05
18-1-6             50.06
18-1-7             50.07
18-1-8             50.08
18-1-9             50.09
18-1-10            50.10
18-1-11            50.11
18-1-12            50.12
18-2-1             50.25
18-2-2             50.26
18-3-1             51.01
18-3-2             51.02
18-3-4             51.03,
                   52.029
18-3-5             51.04
18-3-6             51.05
18-3-7             51.06
18-3-8             51.07
18-3-9             51.08
18-3-10            51.09
18-3-11            51.10
18-3-12            51.11
18-4-1             51.25
18-4-2             51.26
18-4-3             51.27
18-4-4             51.28
18-4-6             51.99
18-5               51.50
18-5-1             51.40
18-5-2             51.41
18-5-3             51.42
18-5-4             51.43
18-5-5             51.44
18-5-6             51.45
18-5-7             51.46
18-5-8             51.47
18-5-9             51.48
18-5-10            51.51
18-6-1             50.60
18-6-2             50.61
18-6-3             50.62
18-6-4             50.63
18-6-5             50.64
18-6-6             50.65
18-6-7             50.66
18-6-8             50.67
18-6-9             50.68
18-6-10            50.69
18-7               52.001,
                   52.002
18-7-1             52.003
18-7-2             52.004
18-8-1             52.025
18-8-2             52.026
18-8-3             52.027
18-8-4             52.028
18-8-5             52.030
18-8-6             52.031
18-8-7             52.032
18-8-8             52.033
18-8-9             52.034
18-8-10            52.035
18-8-11            52.036
18-8-12            52.037
18-8-13            52.038
18-9-1             52.050
18-9-2             52.051
18-9-3             52.052
18-9-4             52.053
18-9-5             52.054
18-9-6             52.055
18-9-7             52.056
18-9-8             52.057
18-10-1            52.070
18-10-2            52.071
18-10-3            52.072
18-10-4            52.073
18-10-5            52.074
18-10-6            52.075
18-10-7            52.076
18-11-1            52.005
18-12-1            52.090
18-12-2            52.091
18-12-3            52.092
18-13              52.999
18-14-1            52.006
18-15-1            52.105
18-15-2            52.106
18-15-3            52.107
18-15-4            52.108
18-16-1            52.120
18-16-2            52.121
18-16-3            52.122
18-16-4            52.123
18-16-5            52.124
18-16-6            52.125
18-16-7            52.126
18-17-2            52.008
18-17-3            52.009
18-18              52.007
18-19-1            52.010
20-1-1             70.01
20-1-2             70.02
20-1-3             70.03
20-1-4             70.04
20-1-5             70.05
20-1-6             70.06
20-1-7             70.07
20-1-8             70.08
20-1-9             70.09
20-2-1             70.20
20-2-2             71.41;
                   Ch. 77, Sch. I
20-2-3             70.21
20-2-4             70.22
20-3-1             71.01
20-3-2             71.02
20-3-3             71.03
20-3-4             71.04
20-3-5             71.05
20-3-6             71.06
20-3-7             71.07
20-3-8             71.08
20-3-9             71.09
20-3-10            71.10
20-3-11            71.11
20-3-12            71.12
20-3-13            71.13
20-3-14            71.14
20-3-15            71.15
20-3-16            71.16
20-3-17            71.17
20-3-18            71.18
20-3-19            71.19
20-3-20            71.20
20-3-21            71.21
20-3-22            71.22
20-3-23            71.23
20-3-24            71.24
20-3-25            71.25
20-3-26            71.26
20-3-27            71.27
20-3-28            71.28
20-3-29            71.29
20-3-30            71.30
20-3-31            71.31
20-3-32            71.32
20-3-33            71.33
20-3-34            71.34
20-3-35            71.35
20-3-36            71.36
20-3-37            71.37
20-3-38            71.38
20-3-39            71.39
20-4-1             72.01
20-4-2             72.02
20-4-3             72.03
20-4-4             72.04
20-4-5             72.05
20-4-6             72.06
20-4-7             72.07
20-5-1             73.01
20-5-2             73.02
20-5-3             73.03
20-5-4             73.04
20-5-5             73.05
20-5-6             73.06
20-5-7             73.07
20-5-8             73.08,
                   73.99
20-5-9             73.09;
                   Ch. 78, Sch. I
20-6-1             74.01
20-6-2             74.02
20-6-3             74.03
20-6-4             74.04
20-6-5             74.05
20-6-6             74.06
20-6-7             74.07
20-6-8             74.08
20-6-9             74.09
20-6-10            74.10
20-6-11            74.11
20-6-12            74.12
20-6-13            74.13
20-6-14            74.14
20-6-15            74.15
20-7-1             70.35
20-7-2             70.36
20-8-1             70.99
20-8-2             70.99
20-8-3             70.99
20-8-4             70.99
20-8-5             70.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         Ch. 77, Sch. III
–      - -         93.20 -
                     93.37
                     153.001 -
                     153.012,
                     153.025 -
                     153.030,
–      2-25-1960   153.045 -
                     153.047,
                     153.060 -
                     153.061,
                     153.090 -
                     153.093
                     152.01 -
–      4-11-1960   152.11,
                     152.99
–      4-2-1962    30.03
                     153.002,
–      9-9-1985    153.009,
                     153.025
–      4-11-1994   153.009
–      10-27-1994  153.003
–      10-27-1994  153.025
–      10-27-1994  153.075 -
                     153.078
1995-12  12- -1995   112.30 -
                     112.35
1999-12  10-11-1999  30.01
2002-7   9-9-2002    Ch. 77, Sch. II
–      2-10-2003   71.40
2005-4   4-11-2005   153.009
2006-15  8-14-2006   153.094
2007-12  12-10-2007  153.025
                     76.01 -
2009-3   7-13-2009   76.05,
                     76.99
2009-4   7-13-2009   153.092
2010-4   6-14-2010   76.02,
                     76.03
                     151.01 -
2011-3   5-9-2011    151.13,
                     151.99
                     113.01 -
2011-6   7-11-2011   113.12,
                     113.99
                     150.01,
2011-7   7-11-2011   150.15 -
                     150.20,
                     150.99
                     91.01,
2011-16  9-12-2011   91.13 -
                     91.15
2011-17  10-10-2011  90.01 -
                     90.22
2012-07  6-11-2012   33.11
2012-8   7-9-2012    76.03
                     150.35 -
2013-11  12-9-2013   150.44,
                     150.99
2014-8   11-10-2014  31.18
2014-9   11-10-2014  31.22
                     50.01,
2015-21  11-9-2015   50.67,
                     50.68,
                     50.69
2015-23  12-14-2015  TSO, Table I
2016-3   2-8-2016    114.01 -
                     114.26
2017-1   2-13-2017   32.18
2018-5   7-9-2018    153.060
                     50.01,
                     50.67 -
2018-10  11-14-2018  50.69,
                     51.03,
                     52.029,
                     52.125
2019-1   1-14-2019   154.01 -
                     154.17
2019-3   2-11-2019   31.03
                     95.01,
                     95.02,
                     95.15 -
                     95.17,
                     95.25,
2019-4   4-10-2019   95.26,
                     95.35 -
                     95.40,
                     95.50 -
                     95.53,
                     95.98,
                     95.99
2019-6   6-12-2019   10.99
2019-8   8-14-2019   115.15
                     115.01 -
2019-12  11-13-2019  115.05,
                     115.99
2021-6   5-12-2021   31.03
2022-5   3-16-2022   76.04
2023-5   6-14-2023   153.078
2023-8   9-13-2023   153.095
2023-9   9-13-2023   155.01 -
                     155.16
2024-7   5-15-2024   153.078
                     96.01 -
                     96.21,
2024-18  11-13-2024  96.98,
                     96.99,
                     App. A,
                     B
                     50.01,
2024-19  11-13-2024  50.67 -
                     50.69, 51.122
                    
 
