MUNICIPAL CODE
of
LAKE BLUFF, ILLINOIS
2009
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-23, passed July 28, 2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This Municipal Code of the Village of Lake Bluff, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-23, passed July 28, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this Municipal Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
LAKE BLUFF MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Code Designated And Cited
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Distribution Of Code
1-1-4: Record Of Ordinances
1-1-1: CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED:
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute
and be designated the LAKE BLUFF MUNICIPAL CODE and may be so cited. (2009
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect. (1988
Code § 1-1-2)
1-1-3: DISTRIBUTION OF CODE:
All of the printed copies of this code belonging to the village shall be
deposited with the village clerk. The village clerk shall deliver one copy
thereof to each member of the board of trustees and additional copies to such
other persons as the board of trustees may direct. The board of trustees shall
have the power to extend or to reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities
by presenting to them, at the expense of the village, copies of this code.
Copies of this code shall be made available for purchase at a price determined
by the board of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-1-5)
1-1-4: RECORD OF ORDINANCES:
All ordinances enacted by the board of trustees shall be consecutively numbered
and prefixed with the last two (2) numbers of the year of passage by the
village clerk in a separate ordinance book and appropriately indexed. (1988
Code § 1-1-6)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Ordinances Not Affected By Code
1-2-2: Effect On Prior Offenses And Rights
1-2-3: Provisions As Continuation Of Existing Ordinances
1-2-4: Catchlines Of Sections; History Notes; References
1-2-5: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-2-6: Amendments
1-2-7: Severability
1-2-8: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-9: Supplementation Of Code
1-2-1: ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE:
A.   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
of the following:
1.   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money
for the village or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any
evidence of the village indebtedness.
2.   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution providing for the levy of taxes
or for an annual budget.
3.   Any ordinance annexing territory to the village or excluding territory as
a part of the village.
4.   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right.
5.   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument.
6.   Any zoning or subdivision ordinances.
7.   Any ordinance naming, renaming, opening, accepting or vacating streets or
alleys in the village.
8.   Any ordinance levying special assessments.
9.   Any ordinance relating to the salaries of village officers or employees.
10.   Any ordinance providing regulations for cable television and other
telecommunications franchises and facilities.
11.   Any ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets or
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities not codified.
12.   Any ordinance whose purpose has been accomplished.
13.   Any ordinance which is special although permanent in effect.
14.   Any ordinance which is temporary although general in effect.
B.   All such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect
to the same extent as if set out at length herein. (2009 Code)
1-2-2: EFFECT ON PRIOR OFFENSES AND RIGHTS:
A.   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing, before the effective date of this
code.
B.   The adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or
allowing any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in
violation of any ordinance of the village in effect on the date of adoption of
this code. (2009 Code)
1-2-3: PROVISIONS AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
ordinance provisions previously adopted by the village relating to the same
subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof
and not as new enactments. (2009 Code)
1-2-4: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; HISTORY NOTES; REFERENCES:
A.   Catchlines: The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as
any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
B.   History Or Source Notes: The history or source notes appearing in
parentheses after sections in this code are not intended to have any legal
effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in
the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after
sections or subsections of this code or which otherwise appear in footnote form
are provided for the convenience of the user of this code and have no legal
effect.
C.   References: All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the
chapters, articles, and sections of this code unless otherwise specified. (2009
Code)
1-2-5: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be
itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly
provided. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, or an offense committed or cause of action
arising under the ordinance repealed. (2009 Code)
1-2-6: AMENDMENTS:
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any way
affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this code and
subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted. (2009 Code)
1-2-7: SEVERABILITY:
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by a valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code.
(2009 Code)
1-2-8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinances relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, services or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of section
1-2-7 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only. (1988 Code § 1-2-2)
1-2-9: SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE:
A.   Preparation And Printing: Supplements to this code shall be prepared and
printed whenever authorized or directed by the village administrator. A
supplement to the code shall include substantive permanent and general parts of
ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes
made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that
they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages
which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
B.   Repealed Portions: In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of
the code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the
omission thereof from reprinted pages.
C.   Changes In Ordinances: When preparing a supplement to this code, the
person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive
changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement
insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For
example, the person may:
1.   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
2.   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and
subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such
catchlines, headings and titles;
3.   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
4.   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this
chapter", "this article", "this section", etc., as the case may be, or to
"sections        to       " (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections
of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated
into the code); and
5.   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case may any
change be made in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the
supplement or already embodied in the code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
A.   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the rules and
definitions set out in this chapter shall be observed unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of trustees. The
rules of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be applied to
any section of this code which shall contain any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or the context of such section
may be repugnant thereto.
B.   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this
code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of
the board of trustees may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and
application of any provision of this code, they shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the code imposes
greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of the
code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be
deemed to be controlling. (2009 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR VILLAGE BOARD: The board of trustees of the village
of Lake Bluff, which shall consist of the president and trustees.
CODE OR THIS CODE: The Lake Bluff municipal code as designated in section
1-1-1 of this title.
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE: That certain schedule that is annually adopted by
the board of trustees setting forth the applicable fees and charges due for the
various licenses, permits and services authorized by this code and by other
ordinances of the village, as set out in chapter 12 of this title.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and the board of trustees.
CORPORATE SEAL: The village seal shall be in circular form with the words and
figures "Seal of the Village of Lake Bluff, Lake County, Illinois" on its outer
circle and in the interior of said circle the words, "Incorporated September
21, 1895".
COUNTY OR THIS COUNTY: The county of Lake, Illinois.
DATUM FOR GRADES 1 :
A.   A base or datum for the grades and levels of the village is hereby fixed
at a point one hundred two and six-tenths feet (102.6') below a cut on the top
of the water table stone at the southeast corner of the village hall. The base
or datum hereby established shall be known as "the datum of the village of Lake
Bluff".
B.   Flood base elevations hereinafter established by the village shall be
measured and fixed in accordance with and, with reference to the datum of the
village.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Lake Bluff".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The "fiscal year" of the village shall begin on May 1 of each year
and end on April 30 next following.
LICENSE: The permission or authority granted to carry on a business,
profession, occupation or activity on public or private property.
MAYOR: That individual serving as village president of the village of Lake
Bluff, who may be referred to as "mayor".
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive, obnoxious or detrimental to the health, safety,
and welfare and property values of the inhabitants of the village; or any act
or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard to, or having a detrimental effect
on the property of another person or to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever any officer is referred to by title, such as "village
clerk", "chief of police", "president", etc., such reference shall be construed
as if followed by the words "of the village of Lake Bluff".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, and societies,
firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation or right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE OR THIS STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the village and shall
include all areas thereof embraced between property lines and dedicated to the
public use.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, either alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Bluff, Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may be referred to as "mayor"
or "president" of the village. The president is also a member of and included
in the definition of the "board of trustees".
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Shall be construed to include any representation of words,
letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise. (1988 Code § 1-3-2; amd.
2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-1-3 of this code, definition of "Lake Bluff datum for grades".
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty; Continuing Violations; Exception
1-4-2: Citations Or Complaints
1-4-3: Offenses Punishable Under Several Sections; License Revocation
1-4-4: Service Of Citations Or Complaints
1-4-5: Service Of Summons
1-4-6: Liability Of Officers
1-4-7: Defense And Indemnification
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS; EXCEPTION:
A.   Whenever in this code, or in any ordinance of the village, any act or
omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
violation of this code, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any
act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a violation of this code, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance is
hereby declared to be an offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day or part
thereof on which a violation occurs or continues or is permitted to occur or
continue.
B.   Whenever a minimum but no maximum fine is imposed as a penalty by any
section or paragraph of this code, the court may, in its discretion, fine the
offender any sum exceeding the minimum fine, but the fine shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
C.   Unless otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be held to have been
committed on each day that any violation of any section of this code shall
occur or continue.
D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code or any other ordinance of
the village, where service of summons in connection with any alleged code or
ordinance violation is made by certified mail pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this chapter, the maximum fine for each violation or offense shall not
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
E.   No provision of this code designating the duties of any village officer or
employee shall be construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any
fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the board of trustees to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2009 Code)
1-4-2: CITATIONS OR COMPLAINTS:
A citation or complaint for any ordinance violation or a violation of this code
may encompass more than one day. (2009 Code)
1-4-3: OFFENSES PUNISHABLE UNDER SEVERAL SECTIONS; LICENSE REVOCATION:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable under more than one
section or subsection of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under
which to proceed, but in no case shall more than one penalty be imposed upon a
person for a single offense; except, that the revocation of a license or permit
(or other civil action of a nonpenal character to enforce any provision of this
code) shall not be considered a penalty so as to bar any other penalty being
imposed. (2009 Code)
1-4-4: SERVICE OF CITATIONS OR COMPLAINTS:
A.   A citation or complaint for any ordinance violation or any violation of
this code may be served by certified mail, return receipt requested; by
personal service by a police or fire officer of the village; or by personal
service by the director or a designated employee of the village administrator.
B.   Personal service of a citation shall be made either by personally
delivering the citation or complaint to the defendant, or by leaving a copy at
the defendant's usual place of abode with some person of the defendant's family
of the age of thirteen (13) years or older, and informing that person of the
contents thereof; provided, that a copy of the citation or complaint shall also
be sent in a sealed envelope with postage fully prepaid, addressed to the
defendant at his or her usual place of abode. (2009 Code)
1-4-5: SERVICE OF SUMMONS:
A.   In all actions initiated by the village for the enforcement of any
provision of this code, or of any other ordinance of the village, where the
fine or penalty specified by the village for each separate offense or violation
does not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), service of summons may be by
certified mail, return receipt requested, whether service is to be made inside
or outside the state.
B.   Subject to all applicable provisions of the Illinois code of civil
procedure, the Illinois supreme court rules and the local rules of the circuit
court, in all actions initiated by the village for the enforcement of any
provision of this code or of any other ordinance of the village, service of
summons may also be made personally by a police officer of the village. Where
service of summons is made by a police officer, service of summons may be made
either by personally delivering the summons to the defendant, or by leaving a
copy at the defendant's usual place of abode with some person of the
defendant's family of the age of thirteen (13) years or older, and informing
that person of the contents thereof, provided the police officer making such
service on anyone other than the defendant shall also send a copy of the
summons in a sealed envelope with postage fully prepaid, addressed to the
defendant at his usual place of abode.
C.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or interpreted as precluding or
preventing service of summons as permitted by all applicable provisions of the
Illinois code of civil procedure, the Illinois supreme court rules and the
local rules of the circuit court. (2009 Code)
1-4-6: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1988 Code § 1-4-3)
1-4-7: DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
A.   Proceedings Against Officials: The village shall defend, save harmless and
indemnify its current and former trustees, commissioners, board members,
officers, employees, attorneys and any village representatives serving on other
bodies who have been appointed by the Lake Bluff board of trustees against any
civil, criminal or administrative investigation, claim, action, suit or
proceedings instituted or threatened to be instituted against them, based upon
any act, error or omission that could be reasonably construed to be within the
exercise of their respective lawful duties or scope of employment and against
judgments, fines and other costs and liabilities, including amounts paid in
settlement sustained as a result of, and reasonable expenses (including
attorney fees) incurred in connection with, the investigation, defense, adverse
decision, compromise or settlement of any such investigation, claim, action,
suit or proceedings or threat thereof.
B.   Actions On Behalf Of Village: This section shall not apply to providing
defense or indemnification to any such trustee, commissioner, board member,
officer, employee or representative in any such investigation, claim, action,
suit or proceedings instituted by or on behalf of the village against such
trustee, commissioner, board member, officer, employee or representative.
C.   Rights Not Exclusive: The rights expressed in this section shall not be
exclusive of any other rights which any current or former trustee,
commissioner, board member, officer, employee or representative may have as a
matter of law. The foregoing rights shall, in the case of the death of a
trustee, commissioner, board member, officer, employee or representative,
accrue to the benefit of his or her successors.
D.   Village Liability: The liability of the village for payments under this
section may be insured to the extent permitted by law, but to the extent not
insured shall be payable out of the funds and monies of the village.
E.   Village Authority: Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or
modify the authority of the village under state law to defend or indemnify
parties or persons as otherwise provided and permitted by law. (Ord. 94-17, 5-
23-1994)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Quorum; Order Of Business
1-5-3: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-5-4: Committees; Reports
1-5-5: Ordinances
1-5-6: Bills, Vouchers; Exception
1-5-7: Budget System
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the board of trustees shall be held
on the second and fourth Monday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., at
the village hall, unless otherwise ordered at a regular meeting. (Ord. 93-6, 5-
24-1993)
B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held at any time on call of the
village president. Such call may be in writing, signed by the village
president, and shall set forth the object of the meeting, the place of the
meeting, and the time of the meeting, and shall be hand delivered or sent by
United States mail, postage prepaid, properly addressed to each trustee to his
residence in the village, and shall be hand delivered or mailed at least two
(2) days prior to such meeting. Special meetings may be called in the manner
aforesaid by any three (3) or more of the village trustees. Special meetings
may also be called by the village president, giving notice in person or by
telephone to all village trustees, the village clerk and village administrator
at least one day in advance of a special meeting date. Special meetings may
also be scheduled during any regular meeting date of the board of trustees. The
office of the village clerk shall be responsible for giving notices required
under the open public meetings act of the state of Illinois 1 . Only that
business specified in the notice to the village trustees, village clerk,
village administrator and news media may be taken up and discussed at a special
meeting. (1988 Code § 1-5-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-5-2: QUORUM; ORDER OF BUSINESS:
At the hour selected for the meeting, the village clerk, or someone appointed
by the village president to fill his place, shall proceed to call the roll of
members, mark the absentees and announce whether a quorum (a majority of all
members elected) be present. Upon the appearance of a quorum, the board of
trustees shall be called to order, the presiding officer taking the chair, if
present, and the board of trustees appointing a temporary chair, if he should
be absent. If a quorum does not appear within thirty (30) minutes of the time
designated for commencement of the meeting, the board of trustees shall thereby
automatically stand adjourned, and all agenda matters for said meeting shall be
set over to the next regular meeting of the board of trustees unless a special
meeting is held pursuant to the provisions of subsection 1-5-1B of this
chapter. When a quorum is present, the board of trustees shall proceed to the
business before it in the order set forth on the meeting agenda unless
otherwise determined by a majority vote of the board of trustees. An
opportunity for public comment and participation shall be provided on the
agenda for each regular and special meeting of the board of trustees and its
committees and shall proceed pursuant to the rules concerning public comment
and participation adopted by resolution of the board of trustees, which rules
shall apply equally to meetings of all village commissions and boards. (Ord.
2011-3, 4-11-2011)
1-5-3: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
Rule 1. All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by
the chair, without debate, subject to appeal.
Rule 2. The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, and may speak
to points of order in preference to other members, and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to an appeal to the board of trustees, on which
appeal no member shall speak more than once without the unanimous consent of
the board of trustees.
Rule 3. While the presiding officer is putting the question or while business
is being transacted, no member shall walk across or out of the board of
trustees room, except by consent of the board of trustees, unless to secure
data or material required for some specific purpose to be considered by the
board of trustees, or for purposes of an emergency.
Rule 4. Every member, previous to his speaking, making a motion, or seconding
the same, shall address himself to the presiding officer, and say: "Mr.
president", or "madame president", and shall not proceed with his remarks until
recognized and named by the chair.
Rule 5. When two (2) or more members shall address the chair at once, the
presiding officer shall name the member who is to speak first.
Rule 6. During sessions of the board of trustees, only village officers and
designated village officials and employees shall be permitted at the board of
trustees' table unless upon invitation of the president. Lobbying shall not be
permitted in the board room of the trustees.
Rule 7. In case of disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding officer
shall have power to require the chamber to be cleared, if necessary.
Rule 8. No member, without leave of the board of trustees, shall present more
than one communication, petition, ordinance or other original matter, until
every member desirous of presenting any communication, petition, ordinance, or
other original matter shall have presented the same.
Rule 9. No member, without leave of the board of trustees, shall speak more
than once upon the same subject until every member desirous of speaking shall
have spoken, and no member shall speak longer than five (5) minutes at any one
time except by consent of the board of trustees.
Rule 10. A member called to order by the chair shall immediately cease to
speak, unless permitted to explain. If there be no appeal, the decision of the
chair shall be conclusive, but if the member appeals from the decision of the
chair, the board of trustees shall decide on the case.
Rule 11. While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private discourse
nor pass between the speaker and the chair.
Rule 12. Every member who shall be present when a question is presented shall
vote thereon unless directly interested in the question, in which case, such
member shall disclose such interest and shall not vote. In the event of a pass,
failure or refusal to vote, the village clerk shall record the vote of such a
member to be the same as other members' vote on the prevailing side.
Rule 13. No member shall be allowed to leave the board of trustees while in
session unless excused by the presiding officer.
Rule 14. Any matter before the board of trustees may be set down as a special
order of business at a certain time, if two-thirds (2/3) of the members present
vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise. (1988 Code § 1-5-3)
Rule 15. No motion shall be put or debated unless it is seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every such motion shall be reduced to writing if required by a member. The
maker of the motion shall be entitled to the floor. The right to vote in any
particular manner as otherwise allowed shall not be restricted in any way as a
result of the board member having made or seconded the motion under
consideration. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-28-2002)
Rule 16. After a motion or resolution is stated by the presiding officer, it
shall be deemed to be in possession of the board of trustees, but may be
withdrawn at any time before decision or amendment, by unanimous consent of the
board of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-5-3)
Rule 17. If the question under consideration contains several distinct
propositions, any member may have the same divided so as to clarify each part.
(1988 Code § 1-5-3; amd. 2009 Code)
Rule 18. In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered upon the minutes
of the board of trustees, the name of the member moving the same shall be
entered also.
Rule 19. If any member requires it, the yeas and nays upon any question shall
be taken and entered on the minutes, but the yeas and nays shall not be taken
unless called for previous to any vote on the question.
Rule 20. The result of all votes by yeas and nays shall be announced by the
village clerk, and no individual vote shall be changed after the vote has been
announced.
Rule 21. When the question is under debate, the only motion in order shall be:
1.   To adjourn to a day certain.
2.   To adjourn.
3.   To lay on the table.
4.   To move or call for the previous question.
5.   To refer.
6.   To amend.
7.   To substitute.
8.   To postpone indefinitely or to a day certain.
      Motions 2, 3 and 4 above shall be decided without debate.
Rule 22. A motion to adjourn the board of trustees shall always be in order,
except:
1.   When a member is in possession of the floor;
2.   When the yeas and nays are being called;
3.   When the members are voting;
4.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
5.   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
Rule 23. A motion simply to adjourn cannot be amended or debated, but a motion
to adjourn to a time named may be amended and is open to debate.
Rule 24. When the previous question is moved and seconded, it shall be put in
this form: "I move we vote now." If carried, all further amendments and debates
shall be excluded, and the questions and the chair shall at once state and put
the question on the motion that is then immediately pending, upon pending
amendments in proper order, and then upon the main questions. (1988 Code § 1-5-
3)
Rule 25. A motion simply to lay a question on the table is not debatable, but a
motion to lay on the table and publish or any other condition, is subject to
amendment and debate. A motion to remove a subject matter from the table may be
proposed at the same meeting, provided two-thirds (2/3) of the board of
trustees present vote therefor. (1988 Code § 1-5-3; amd. 2009 Code)
Rule 26. A motion to lay any particular proposition on the table shall apply to
that proposition only.
Rule 27. When a motion is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be again taken
up at the same meeting.
Rule 28. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take precedence to a
similar motion for an ad hoc committee.
Rule 29. A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
Rule 30. An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
Rule 31. On an amendment to "strike out and insert", the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out and those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand as so amended shall be read.
Rule 32. A substitute for any original proposition in debate may be entertained
when further amendment is not admissible; and if accepted by the mover of such
original proposition, or by the board of trustees by vote, it shall entirely
supersede such original proposition, and cut off all amendments appertaining
thereto. Any substitute proposition can be amended only by adding thereto.
Rule 33. A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time, during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration being once made and decided in the negative, shall not be
renewed, nor shall a vote to reconsider be reconsidered, unless there is
unanimous consent by the board of trustees to allow a motion to be made
therefor preceding the vote on reconsideration.
Rule 34. A motion to reconsider must be made only by a member who voted with
the prevailing side; provided, however, that when a motion is lost by reason of
not receiving a two-thirds (2/3) or more vote required for its passage, a
motion to reconsider may be made by a member voting in the minority. The
president shall be included in the total of board of trustees members for this
purpose. The seconder of such motion need not have voted with the prevailing
side on such question, or have voted at all.
Rule 35. The board of trustees shall, at all regular meetings, resume old
business at the same order on which it was engaged immediately preceding the
last adjournment, unless agreed to by majority vote of the corporate
authorities. (1988 Code § 1-5-3)
Rule 36. Reserved. (Ord. 2011-3, 4-11-2011)
Rule 37. Any other matters of rules of order and procedures not provided for
herein or by the Illinois statutes will be governed by the latest edition of
"Robert's Rules Of Order". (1988 Code § 1-5-3)
1-5-4: COMMITTEES; REPORTS:
A.   Standing Committees:
1.   Established: The following shall be the standing committees of the board
of trustees:
      Economic development
      Finance
      Public safety
      Public works
2.   Appointment; Composition: The standing committees shall each consist of
three (3) duly elected or appointed members of the board of trustees. The
village president shall have the authority to appoint, replace or remove the
chairman and members of the standing committees. The village president shall
notify the board of trustees of any change in the composition of any of the
standing committees at the first regular meeting of the board of trustees after
such change in composition has occurred.
3.   General Purpose: The standing committees shall evaluate existing and
proposed policies and practices of the village in their areas of
responsibility, and make any recommendations with respect thereto which they
deem appropriate to the village president, board of trustees and village
administrator.
4.   Specific Purpose: The purpose of each of the standing committees shall be
as follows:
a.   Economic Development: To assist and advise the village president, board of
trustees and village administrator in developing, maintaining and improving the
economic vitality of commercial enterprises within the village and those that
seek to relocate in the village and to solicit advice and cooperation from such
enterprises on such matters.
b.   Finance: To assist and advise the village president, board of trustees and
village administrator with regard to the village budget and tax levies, the
reports of independent auditors and the financial policies and practices of the
village.
c.   Public Safety: To assist and advise the village president, board of
trustees and village administrator in assessing and formulating policies with
respect to the village police and fire departments to maintain and protect the
safety of persons within the village and to safeguard real and personal
property located in the village.
d.   Public Works: To assist and advise the village president, board of
trustees and village administrator in assessing and formulating the policies of
the village engineering and public works departments with regard to the orderly
and efficient provision of municipal utility services, including water
distribution, sanitary and storm sewer collection, refuse and recycling
collection and disposal and street and sidewalk repair and replacement.
5.   Administration: The standing committees shall be staffed and administered
by the village administrator or his or her designee.
6.   Public Notice: All meetings of the standing committees shall be open to
the public. The village administrator shall arrange for the proper public
notice of the time and place of meetings of the standing committees as
requested by the chairperson or a majority of the members of the standing
committee. (Ord. 93-6, 5-24-1993)
B.   Ad Hoc Committees: The president shall be empowered to appoint from time
to time such select or additional committees deemed necessary and proper.
C.   Report; Discharge: On the acceptance of a final report from an ad hoc
committee, the said committee shall be discharged without a vote unless
otherwise ordered.
D.   Referrals To Committees:
1.   When two (2) or more committees have jurisdiction, the board of trustees
shall decide to which committee the subject matter shall go.
2.   Standing and ad hoc committees to whom references are made shall, in all
cases, report, at least once in each month, unless further time be granted by a
vote of the board of trustees, the statement of facts with their opinions
thereon, signed by the members concurring therein. Separate or minority reports
of committee members may be rendered at the same time as majority reports or
reports of committee chairmen.
E.   Committee Reports: All reports of committees shall be addressed "To the
president and board of trustees". They shall briefly describe the matter
referred and the conclusion to which the committee has arrived; which
conclusion may be summed up in the form of an ordinance, order, resolution,
recommendation or some other distinct proposition. (1988 Code § 1-5-4; amd.
Ord. 93-6, 5-24-1993)
1-5-5: ORDINANCES:
A.   Action Upon First Proposal: No ordinance shall be acted upon at any
meeting in which the same is first proposed or introduced unless this provision
is waived by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the board of
trustees, including the president. This provision shall not apply to
resolutions, orders and expenditures and in those instances where such an
ordinance is required by law to be passed by a certain date which cannot be
complied with except by a special meeting date of the board of trustees. (Ord.
89-2, 1-23-1989)
B.   Referral To Committee: All ordinances, petitions, resolutions, orders or
communications shall, at the discretion of the president or the vote of four
(4) or more trustees, be referred to the appropriate committee, board or
commission, as determined by the president, for their report and
recommendation. (1988 Code § 1-5-5)
1-5-6: BILLS, VOUCHERS; EXCEPTION:
All bills and vouchers shall be approved in writing. Each bill shall be
accompanied by a voucher made out at the direction of the village treasurer,
and together they shall be referred, with his written approval, or otherwise,
to the finance committee. Such committee shall then reexamine and rerefer all
bills thus referred to it, to the board of trustees, accompanied by the proper
voucher, approved or otherwise, and the board of trustees may call upon any
village officer or officers for information concerning bills before it. The
same shall then be ready for payment upon the requisite vote of the board of
trustees but not otherwise. This rule shall apply to all bills and expenses
incurred by the village, except for the salaries and wages of the village
officers and employees specifically provided for and which shall be paid
monthly upon such officers or employees signing the monthly payroll therefor.
Any bill or bills adversely reported by the board of trustees shall be, on
request of any two (2) trustees, referred to a special committee for a further
report thereon before the same is allowed or disallowed. (1988 Code § 1-5-6)
1-5-7: BUDGET SYSTEM:
A.   Adoption: The village hereby adopts the budget system of operation set
forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 and 5/8-2-9.2 through 5/8-2-
9.10, as amended.
B.   Effective Date: Said budget system shall take effect for the fiscal year
commencing May 1, 1992, and thereafter, until said system of operation is
terminated pursuant to law.
C.   Powers: The village and its designated officer shall have those powers
enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.2 through 5/8-2-9.10,
inclusive. (Ord. 91-17, 12-9-1991)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Election; Term
1-6A-2: Bond And Oath
1-6A-3: Duties
1-6A-4: Deputy Clerk
1-6A-5: Fees
1-6A-1: ELECTION; TERM:
There shall be elected at the village election in the year 1989, and biennially
thereafter, a village clerk who shall have resided within the corporate limits
of the village at least one year next preceding the election at which he is a
candidate, and who shall hold the office of village clerk for a term of two (2)
years and until a successor is elected and qualified. (1988 Code § 1-6A-1)
1-6A-2: BOND AND OATH:
The village clerk shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the village a bond
in the penal sum of such amount determined by the board of trustees, but not
less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), in the usual form, or as is, or
shall hereafter be, provided by law, with good and sufficient surety to be
approved by the board of trustees, and the cost of the premium of said bond to
be borne by the village, said bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his official duties, and the village clerk shall also take the customary oath
of office before entering upon the duties of such office. (1988 Code § 1-6A-2)
1-6A-3: DUTIES:
Whenever used in this code, the term "village clerk" shall also refer to the
office of the village clerk and to the deputy village clerk and such
individuals who perform duties in the office of the village clerk. Unless
prohibited by statute, any duty of the village clerk may be performed by the
deputy village clerk or an employee in such office. It shall be the duty of the
village clerk, in addition to all other duties prescribed by law and the
ordinances of the village, to perform the following duties:
A.   Office: To maintain the office of the village clerk for the transaction of
village business at the village hall, or at such place as the board of trustees
may otherwise designate.
B.   Keep Corporate Seal: The village clerk shall keep the corporate seal in
the office of the village clerk in the village hall and affix the same to all
papers which require it.
C.   Records; Attendance At Board Meetings: The village clerk shall keep all
records and papers belonging to the village, and shall attend all meetings of
the board of trustees, and shall keep a full record of its proceedings in the
journal at the village hall.
D.   Copy Records For Court Use: The village clerk shall make copies of all
papers duly filed in the office of the village clerk and transcripts from the
journals and other records and files of his office, certified by the clerk
under the corporate seal of the village, for use in evidence in courts when
required.
E.   Election Notices: It shall be the duty of the village clerk, within five
(5) days after the result of any election is declared or appointment made, to
notify all persons elected or appointed to any village office, of their
election or appointment. This notification shall be in addition to that which
may be required of the county clerk, and shall inform the individual of the
time and place for the administration of the oath of office and the next
scheduled meeting date for the position to which the individual was appointed
or elected.
F.   Record Of Ordinances: All ordinances passed by the board of trustees shall
be recorded by the village clerk in a book to be kept for that purpose, before
the next regular meeting after their passage. The village clerk shall be
responsible for the publication in pamphlet form or otherwise, or posting of
all ordinances requiring the same. The village clerk shall note, at the end of
the record copy of each ordinance, a memorandum of the date of such publication
or posting, the date of its passage, and the date of its approval, if approved,
by the village president, and if published or posted. This record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
passage and publication or posting of such ordinance for all purposes
whatsoever. The original shall be filed in the office of the village clerk with
a certificate of publication attached thereto, or if posted, a certificate
under seal by the village clerk stating the same has been posted and giving the
date thereof. "Publication", as used herein, shall include publication in
pamphlet form when so ordered by the board of trustees.
G.   Tax Levy Ordinance: The village clerk shall, on or before the second
Tuesday of September of each year, file with the county clerk a certified copy
of the tax levy ordinance showing the total amount of appropriations for all
corporate purposes of the village, the levy and assessment therefor, any
resolutions for road and bridge purposes, and certification of compliance with
truth in taxation statutes of the state of Illinois.
H.   Communications To Board: All petitions, remonstrances, bids, bills or
other communications addressed to the board of trustees shall be received by
the village clerk and read by the village clerk at the meeting of the board of
trustees next succeeding their receipt, unless otherwise ordered by the board
of trustees.
I.   Additional Duties: The village clerk shall perform such duties as the
board of trustees may from time to time direct by resolution, order or
ordinance. (1988 Code § 1-6A-3)
1-6A-4: DEPUTY CLERK:
The village clerk may appoint, by and with the approval of the board of
trustees, a deputy village clerk who shall be empowered, in the absence of the
village clerk, to perform the duties and be invested with the powers of the
village clerk, and shall hold office for and during the term of office of the
village clerk. (1988 Code § 1-6A-4)
1-6A-5: FEES:
Unless otherwise specifically provided, the village clerk is hereby authorized
to demand and receive as fees the amounts as set out in section
1-12-3 of this title. (1988 Code § 1-6A-5; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Creation; Appointment; Term
1-6B-2: Bond
1-6B-3: Compensation
1-6B-4: Powers And Duties
1-6B-5: Authority As Budget Officer
1-6B-6: Removal From Position
1-6B-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
A.   There is hereby created the office of village administrator, which officer
shall be appointed by a two- thirds (2/3) majority vote of the board of
trustees for an indefinite term. The village administrator shall be chosen by
the board of trustees who shall consider the appointee's executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to actual experience in or
knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of office hereinafter
set forth. At the time of such appointment, the village administrator need not
be a resident of the village, but shall move into and, during the tenure of the
village administrator, shall reside within the village. No trustee shall
receive such appointment while serving in that capacity.
B.   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the board of trustees and its members
shall deal with the administrative personnel solely through the village
administrator. (1988 Code § 1-6B-1)
1-6B-2: BOND:
The village administrator shall furnish a surety bond in the penal sum of such
amount determined by the board of trustees, but not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), to be approved by the board of trustees, said bond to be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the village
administrator. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the village. (1988 Code
§ 1-6B-2)
1-6B-3: COMPENSATION:
The village administrator shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed
from time to time by the board of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-6B-3)
1-6B-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the
village. The village administrator may head one or more departments and shall
be responsible to the board of trustees for the proper administration of all
affairs of the village. To that end, the village administrator shall have power
and shall be required to:
A.   Employees; Contract Employees: Appoint, establish contract terms if any
for, and when necessary in the interests of the village, suspend or remove any
employee of the village; provided further, that the village administrator may
authorize the head of a subordinate department or office to appoint, suspend,
or remove subordinates in such department or office.
B.   Officers; Other Board Appointed Positions: Recommend to the board of
trustees the appointment, annual compensation, contract terms if any,
suspension, or removal of the following: 1) all officers of the village,
including, without limitation, the offices of the deputy village administrator,
village attorney, village treasurer, chief of police, fire chief, director of
public works, health officer, plumbing inspector, building commissioner,
building inspector, coordinator of ESDA, director of finance, and any other
officers that are by village ordinance or other applicable law to be appointed
upon recommendation of the village administrator by the board of trustees or
its president and 2) the position of deputy chief of police, which is a
contract employee position. (Ord. 2014-4, 2-24-2014)
C.   Prepare Budget: Prepare the budget annually and submit same to the board
of trustees by April 15 of each year, together with a message describing the
important features and be responsible for its administration after adoption.
D.   Financial Report: Prepare and submit to the board of trustees as of the
end of the fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the village for the preceding year.
E.   Advise Board Of Financial Condition: Keep the board of trustees advised of
the financial condition and future needs of the village, and make such
recommendations as he may deem desirable.
F.   Pay Schedules: Recommend to the board of trustees a standard schedule of
pay for each appointive office and position in the village service, including
minimum, intermediate and maximum rates.
G.   Recommend Measures For Improvement: Recommend to the board of trustees
from time to time adoption of such measures as the village administrator may
deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community
or for the improvement of administrative services.
H.   Consolidate Offices: Consolidate or combine offices, positions,
departments or units under his jurisdiction, with the approval of the board of
trustees.
I.   Attend Meetings: Attend all meetings of the board of trustees, unless
excused therefrom, and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before
the board of trustees. The village administrator shall be entitled to notice of
all regular and special meetings of the board of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-6B-4)
J.   Purchase Of Materials: Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies
and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget; let contracts
necessary for operation or maintenance of village services and purchases of
materials, supplies and equipment pursuant to the "Village Of Lake Bluff
Purchasing Policies And Procedures Manual", as amended from time to time, for
amounts up to and including the limits set forth in the purchasing policies and
procedures manual; receive sealed bids for purchases in excess of the limits
set forth in the purchasing policies and procedures manual, and present them to
the board of trustees for consideration; and advise the board of trustees on
the advantages and/or disadvantages of contract and bid proposals. No purchase
shall be made, contract let, or obligation incurred for any item or service
which exceeds the current budget without a budget amendment approved by the
board of trustees. No contract in excess of the limits set forth in the
purchasing policies and procedures manual shall be let except by the board of
trustees. The village administrator may issue such rules governing purchasing
procedures within the administrative organization as the board of trustees
shall approve. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the
village administrator may direct the payment of any and all lawful obligations
of the village pursuant to the village cash management and investment policy,
as amended from time to time. Report of such payment shall be given to the
board of trustees at the next meeting. (Ord. 2009-16, 4-27-2009, eff. 5-1-2009)
K.   Enforcement Of Laws And Ordinances: See that all laws and ordinances are
duly enforced.
L.   Investigate Affairs Of Departments: Investigate the affairs of any
department or division under his jurisdiction. Investigate all complaints in
relation to matters under the jurisdiction of the village administrator
concerning the administration of the government of the village, and in regard
to service maintained by the public utilities in the village, and see that all
franchises, permits and privileges granted by the village are faithfully
observed.
M.   Perform Other Duties: Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
the board of trustees, not inconsistent with the village ordinances. (1988 Code
§ 1-6B-4)
1-6B-5: AUTHORITY AS BUDGET OFFICER 1 :
The president and board of trustees hereby delegate authority to the village
administrator (budget officer), to delete, add to, change or create subclasses
within object classes budgeted previously within all departments and/or funds.
(Ord. 92-9, 4-27-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article K of this chapter.
1-6B-6: REMOVAL FROM POSITION:
The board of trustees may remove the village administrator at any time by a
two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of its members but shall continue his/her salary
for one month following this action if said village administrator has served in
that capacity for six (6) months or more, or one-half (1/2) month's salary if
service has been for less than six (6) months, or in the event such appointment
is accompanied with an employment contract, any termination in office of the
village administrator shall be governed by the specific terms and conditions
contained in any such employment contract. (1988 Code § 1-6B-5)
ARTICLE C. DEPUTY VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Creation; Appointment; Term; Qualifications
1-6C-2: Bond
1-6C-3: Compensation
1-6C-4: Powers And Duties
1-6C-5: Removal From Position
1-6C-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS:
A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of deputy village
administrator for the village.
B.   Appointment; Term; Qualifications: The deputy village administrator shall,
upon the recommendation of the village administrator, be appointed by a two-
thirds (2/3) majority vote of the board of trustees for an indefinite term.
Said deputy administrator shall be chosen by the village administrator and
board of trustees who shall consider the appointee's executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to actual experience in or
knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office as
hereinafter set forth. At the time of such appointment, the deputy village
administrator need not be a resident of the village, but shall, during the
tenure in office of the deputy village administrator, move into and reside
within the village. No trustee shall receive such appointment while he is
serving in that capacity. (1988 Code § 1-6C-1)
1-6C-2: BOND:
The deputy village administrator shall furnish a surety bond in the penal sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), to be approved by the board of trustees,
said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties of the
office of the deputy village administrator. The premium of the bond shall be
paid by the village. (1988 Code § 1-6C-2)
1-6C-3: COMPENSATION:
The deputy village administrator shall receive such compensation as shall be
established from time to time by the village administrator with the approval of
the board of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-6C-3)
1-6C-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The deputy village administrator shall be the chief deputy administrative
officer of the village. The deputy village administrator may head one or more
departments as directed by the village administrator and shall be responsible
to the village administrator and the board of trustees for the proper
administration of all affairs of the village assigned to be performed by the
deputy village administrator. To that end, the deputy village administrator
shall have power and shall be required to:
A.   Recommendations:
1.   Recommend to the village administrator the appointment, annual
compensation, and when necessary for the good of the village, the suspension or
removal of any employee of the village; provided further, he may recommend to
the village administrator to authorize the head of a subordinate department or
office to appoint, suspend or remove such department or office.
2.   Recommend to the village administrator the appointment, annual
compensation, contract terms if any, suspension, or removal of those officers
and other positions that the village administrator is responsible to recommend
under subsection 1-6B-4B of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-4, 2-24-2014)
B.   Assist Budget Preparation: Assist the village administrator in the annual
preparation of the budget and assist in its submission to the board of trustees
by April 15 of each year, together with a message describing the important
features, and be responsible to the village administrator for its
administration after adoption.
C.   Assist Financial Report: Assist the village administrator in the
preparation and submission to the board of trustees as of the end of the fiscal
year, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
village for the preceding year.
D.   Assist Administrator; Make Recommendations: Assist the village
administrator in keeping the board of trustees advised of the financial
condition and future needs of the village, and make such recommendations to the
village administrator as he may deem desirable.
E.   Recommend Pay Schedules: Prepare recommendations to the village
administrator for a standard schedule of pay for each appointive office and
position in the village service, including minimum, intermediate and maximum
rates.
F.   Recommend Measures For Improvement: Recommend to the village administrator
from time to time, adoption of such measures as the deputy village
administrator may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare
of the community or for the improvement of administrative services.
G.   Assist In Development Of Policies: Assist the village administrator in the
development of personnel policies, and office management plans and studies for
offices, positions, departments or units under his jurisdiction or that of the
village administrator for review and action by the board of trustees.
H.   Attend Meetings: Attend all meetings of the board of trustees as directed
by the village administrator, unless excused therefrom, and take part in the
discussion of all matters coming before the board of trustees. The deputy
village administrator shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special
meetings of the board of trustees.
I.   Assist In Purchase Of Materials:
1.   Assist the village administrator in the supervision and purchase of all
materials, supplies and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget;
let contracts necessary for operation or maintenance of village services and
purchases of materials, supplies and equipment for amounts up to and including
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); receive sealed bids for
purchases in excess of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and
present them to the village administrator for action, and advise the village
administrator on the advantages or disadvantages of contract and bid proposals.
No purchase shall be made, contract let, or obligation incurred for any item or
service which exceeds the current budget appropriation without a supplemental
appropriation by the board of trustees. No contract in excess of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and no contract for new construction shall be
let except by the board of trustees. The deputy village administrator shall be
guided by such rules governing purchasing procedures within the administrative
organization as the board of trustees shall approve. (1988 Code § 1-6C-4)
2.   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a public
emergency, the deputy village administrator, with approval of the village
president, or two (2) trustees, may award contracts and make purchases for the
purpose of meeting said emergency for amounts up to and including five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), but the deputy village administrator shall promptly inform
the village administrator of his action, and shall simultaneously file promptly
with the board of trustees, a certificate showing such emergency and the
necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all
expenditures. (1988 Code § 1-6C-5)
J.   Enforcement Of Laws: See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
K.   Investigate Affairs Of Departments: Investigate the affairs of any
department or division under his jurisdiction. Investigate all complaints in
relation to matters under the jurisdiction of the deputy village administrator
or referred to him by the village administrator concerning the administration
of the government of the village, and in regard to service maintained by the
public utilities in the village, and see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the village are faithfully observed.
L.   Official Duties: Devote his entire time to the discharge of his official
duties.
M.   Other Duties: Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board
of trustees and village administrator, not inconsistent with the village
ordinances. (1988 Code § 1-6C-4)
1-6C-5: REMOVAL FROM POSITION:
The board of trustees, upon recommendation of the village administrator, may
remove the deputy village administrator at any time by a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of its members, but shall continue his salary for one month following this
action if he has served in that capacity for six (6) months or more, or one-
half (1/2) month's salary if he has served for less than six (6) months, or in
the event such appointment is accompanied with an employment contract, any
termination in office of the deputy village administrator shall be governed by
the specific terms and conditions contained in any such employment contract.
(1988 Code § 1-6C-6)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Appointment; Term; Compensation
1-6D-2: Bond And Oath
1-6D-3: Powers And Duties
1-6D-4: Deliver Records To Successor; Violation, Penalty
1-6D-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION:
A.   Appointment; Term: There shall be appointed annually by the village
president, upon the recommendation of the village administrator and by and with
the approval of the board of trustees, a village treasurer, who shall hold his
office for one year and until his successor is appointed and qualified. The
village treasurer shall be a qualified elector of the village and shall have
resided therein at least one year next preceding the date of his appointment.
B.   Compensation: The village treasurer shall receive such compensation as
shall be established by the village administrator and approved by the board of
trustees from time to time. (1988 Code § 1-6D-1)
1-6D-2: BOND AND OATH:
The village treasurer shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the village a
bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the board of
trustees, in such form, manner and sum as is or shall hereafter be provided by
law or by resolution of the board of trustees. The village treasurer shall also
take the customary oath of office before entering upon the duties of such
office. (1988 Code § 1-6D-2)
1-6D-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the village treasurer, in addition to the duties
prescribed by law, to perform the duties hereinafter mentioned in this article.
In the performance of such duties, the village treasurer may be assisted by
such employees required therefor as approved by the village administrator.
(1988 Code § 1-6D-3)
A.   Village Funds:
1.   Receive Monies: The village treasurer shall keep a true and accurate
account of all monies paid into the treasury, by whom, and on what account
received; pay out such sums of money as may be ordered by the board of
trustees, and only on warrants signed by the village treasurer, and
countersigned by the village administrator or deputy village administrator and
either the village president or a trustee, and in all such cases, such warrants
must state upon what particular fund they are drawn. Any bond or interest
coupon issued by the village, and due and payable, shall be considered as a
warrant duly authorized for payment by the village treasurer.
2.   Deposit, Invest Funds:
a.   The village treasurer shall deposit all monies belonging to the village,
which shall come into his hands, with a regularly designated village depository
in the appropriate fund account within forty eight (48) business hours of the
time that such monies come into his hands. Such depository shall be designated
by the board of trustees in such manner as may be required by law.
b.   No person or institution shall be designated or used as a village
depository excepting a properly organized bank doing business in the state of
Illinois, according to law.
c.   The village treasurer is authorized to invest such funds in the working
cash fund of the village in such investments as permitted by law, and to
transfer any and all interest income therefrom to the general corporate fund of
the village to the credit of such fund as directed by the board of trustees.
3.   Payments From Particular Fund: No money shall be paid by the village
treasurer upon any warrant, bond or coupon, except from the monies belonging to
the particular fund or appropriation upon which such warrant shall have been
drawn; nor shall money be transferred by the village treasurer from one fund to
another after it has been received by him, nor appropriated to any other
purpose than that for which it has been collected or paid, without a vote of
the majority of the board of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-6D-3-1)
B.   Records, Accounts:
1.   Books Of Accounts: The village treasurer shall keep such books of accounts
as the board of trustees or village administrator shall from time to time
direct. The books which must be kept by the village treasurer shall at all
times show the exact condition of the monies under his control, of each account
and appropriation and of all receipts and disbursements; and such books,
together with all others belonging to the village and in his custody, shall be
by him handed over to his successor. The village treasurer shall, upon receipt
of all monies, enter and appropriate the same to the credit of the several
accounts upon which such monies were paid, stating from whom they were
received. The village treasurer shall keep a separate account with each fund or
appropriation, stating at the head of each account the amount so appropriated,
and giving the several debits and credits belonging thereto.
2.   Special Assessments: The village treasurer shall also keep an account with
each special assessment under its general description and number, and said
account shall show at its head the amount assessed for public benefits and also
that for special benefits. All monies received on any special assessment shall
be held by the village treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment
of the improvement for which the assessment was made, and said monies shall be
used for no other purpose whatever, except as may have been provided in the
ordinance for the improvement.
3.   Balancing; Inspections; Audits:
a.   Balancing Accounts: The books of accounts provided in this article shall
be properly balanced at least once in each month, in such a manner that the
same, when so balanced, shall show the true status and condition of each and
every account therein shown.
b.   Inspections: The village treasurer shall keep all books, papers, vouchers,
warrants, documents and all other instruments in writing, appertaining to his
office, at the village hall, which said books and documents shall at all times
be open for inspection by or at the direction of the village president, board
of trustees, village clerk, village administrator or deputy village
administrator.
c.   Audits: The board of trustees shall appoint annually, prior to the
termination of each fiscal year, and also upon the expiration of the term of
office of the village treasurer, whether caused by resignation, removal from
office or otherwise, a certified public accountant or firm of certified public
accountants as an auditor to audit all books, papers, vouchers or other
documents or instruments pertaining to the office of the village treasurer for
said fiscal year or for such period as may have elapsed since the previous
audit has been made. Said auditor shall thereupon make a full and complete
report thereof to the board of trustees, and a copy of such report shall be
made available for public inspection. Such audits shall include all funds of
the village, whether maintained by the village treasurer or not. The board of
trustees may, for such cause deemed appropriate, cause interim audits to be
conducted as provided for herein. (1988 Code § 1-6D-3-2)
C.   Reports:
1.   Receipts And Disbursements: The village treasurer shall, at the end of
each and every month, and more often if required, render an account to the
board of trustees and village administrator showing all receipts and
disbursements in detail during the month, and the state or condition of every
account not closed on the village treasurer's books, the whole to be a balance
sheet and a complete abstract of the financial affairs of the village. The
village treasurer shall annually, before the second Monday of May, make out and
file with the village clerk a full and detailed account of all such receipts
and expenditures and of all transactions during the preceding fiscal year. Such
annual report shall be presented to the board of trustees and village
administrator and shall be published or posted as may be required by law.
2.   Cancel Warrants: The village treasurer shall cancel all warrants paid and
redeemed by him, and upon rendering of any monthly report, shall cause the same
to be accompanied by all warrants, duplicate receipts in detail for all monies
received, and such other vouchers as will fully and entirely cover all
transactions for the month of such report.
3.   Finance Committee Approval: Upon examination and approval by the finance
committee, the village clerk shall take charge of the village treasurer's
report, warrants and vouchers, and shall keep the same on file in the office of
the village clerk. (1988 Code § 1-6D-3-3; amd. 2009 Code)
1-6D-4: DELIVER RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR; VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Whenever the treasurer's term of office shall expire, whether caused by
resignation, removal from the village, removal from office by the village
administrator upon the approval of the board of trustees, the appointment of a
successor or other cause, it shall be the duty of such village treasurer, or
person, to at once deliver to the successor in office of the village treasurer,
or such other person as may be specially designated by the village
administrator upon approval by the board of trustees, all monies, property,
books and effects of every description in the possession of the village
treasurer, belonging to the village or appertaining to his office, and the
village treasurer shall, at once, account for and pay over to such successor or
other person so designated, all monies that he shall be accountable for, or owe
to the village, in his capacity as village treasurer. Any person who served as
village treasurer, on the expiration of the village treasurer's term of office
by any reason whatsoever, and who has violated any of the provisions of this
section, shall remain liable for all damages caused thereby, and shall further
forfeit and pay to the village a penalty of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than the maximum penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each such violation, and each day such a violation
continues shall be considered a separate violation. (1988 Code § 1-6D-4; amd.
2009 Code)
ARTICLE E. VILLAGE ATTORNEY AND VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Village Attorney
1-6E-2: Village Prosecutor
1-6E-1: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
A.   Creation; Appointment; Term; Qualifications:
1.   There is hereby created the office of village attorney.
2.   The village attorney shall have the status of an independent contractor.
3.   The village attorney shall be appointed by the village president, by and
with the approval of a majority of the board of trustees.
4.   The village attorney shall hold office until his successor shall be
appointed and qualified.
5.   The village attorney shall be a regular licensed and practicing member of
the Illinois bar.
B.   Compensation: The village attorney shall be compensated in the manner
recommended by the village administrator and approved by the board of trustees.
C.   Duties: The duties of the village attorney shall include, without
limitation, the following:
1.   Provide advice to the village president and board of trustees, committees
thereof, the village administrator and officers of the village on legal
questions.
2.   Attend all regular meetings of the board of trustees.
3.   Render legal opinions on questions submitted.
4.   Draft ordinances and legal documents on behalf of the village; provided,
however, that no such drafting shall commence without the authorization of the
village president, the village administrator, or three (3) or more of the
members of the board of trustees.
5.   Appear for and defend the village in all suits at law or in chancery to
which it may be a party, and perform such other duties on behalf of the village
as pertains to the office.
D.   Removal: The board of trustees may remove the village attorney at any time
by and with the approval of a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the members of
the board of trustees. (Ord. 93-2, 2-8-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
1-6E-2: VILLAGE PROSECUTOR:
A.   Creation; Appointment; Term; Qualifications:
1.   There is hereby created the office of village prosecutor.
2.   The village prosecutor shall have the status of an independent contractor.
3.   The village prosecutor shall be appointed by the village president, by and
with the approval of a majority of the board of trustees.
4.   The village prosecutor shall hold office until his successor shall be
appointed and qualified.
5.   The village prosecutor shall be a regular licensed and practicing member
of the Illinois bar.
B.   Compensation: The village prosecutor shall be compensated in the manner
recommended by the village administrator and approved by the board of trustees.
C.   Duties: The duties of the village prosecutor shall include, without
limitation, the following:
1.   Prosecute suits or actions involving violations of this code and other
ordinances of the village including, without limitation, violations of all
traffic codes and ordinances.
2.   Advise officers of the police department on legal questions.
3.   File with the village clerk a written monthly report showing the business
transacted and the services rendered for the preceding month, and the status of
all pending litigation, unfinished business and all other material facts of
public interest pertaining to the conduct of said office during the preceding
month.
D.   Removal: The board of trustees may remove the village prosecutor at any
time by and with the approval of a two- thirds (2/3) majority vote of the
members of the board of trustees. (Ord. 93-2, 2-8-1993)
ARTICLE F. CHIEF OF POLICE AND DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE 1
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Creation; Appointment; Term; Compensation
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 5-1-1 and
  5-1-2 of this code.
1-6F-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION:
A.   Chief Of Police: There is hereby created and established the office of
chief of police for the village. The chief of police shall be appointed by the
village president, upon the recommendation of the village administrator, by and
with the approval of the board of trustees, and shall hold office for such
period of time as determined by the board of trustees. The chief of police
shall be governed by and subject to the ordinances of the village relating to
the police department. The chief of police shall receive such compensation as
shall be established from time to time by the village administrator and with
the approval of the board of trustees.
B.   Deputy Chief Of Police: There is hereby created and established the
contract employee position of deputy chief of police for the village. The
deputy chief of police and the contract terms of employment for the deputy
chief of police shall be approved by the village president, upon the
recommendation of the village administrator, by and with the consent of the
board of trustees, and the term of employment shall be determined by the board
of trustees. The duties of the deputy chief of police shall be determined by
the village administrator and chief of police. (Ord. 2014-4, 2-24-2014)
ARTICLE G. FIRE CHIEF 1
SECTION:
1-6G-1: Creation; Appointment; Term; Compensation
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2-3 of this code.
1-6G-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created and established the position of fire chief for the
village. The fire chief shall be appointed by the village president, upon the
recommendation of the village administrator, by and with the approval of the
board of trustees, and shall hold office for such period of time as determined
by the board of trustees. The fire chief shall be governed by and subject to
the ordinances of the village relating to the fire department. The fire chief
shall receive such compensation as shall be established from time to time by
the village administrator, by and with the approval of the board of trustees.
(1988 Code § 1-6G-1)
ARTICLE H. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-6H-1: Creation; Qualifications
1-6H-2: Appointment; Term; Compensation
1-6H-3: Bond And Oath
1-6H-4: Duties
1-6H-1: CREATION; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created the position of director of public works. This position
requires a high degree of training, knowledge and expertise in the field of
public works in order to plan, direct, administer and monitor all public works
operations including water distribution; sanitary and storm sewer collection;
streets, sidewalk and alley maintenance; parks and parkway maintenance;
building maintenance; equipment maintenance; and other activities as assigned.
(Ord. 94-18, 6-27-1994)
1-6H-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION:
A.   Appointment And Term: The director of public works shall be appointed by
the village president, upon the recommendation of the village administrator and
by and with the approval of the board of trustees. The director of public works
shall hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified.
B.   Compensation: The director of public works shall receive such compensation
as shall be established by the village administrator and approved by the board
of trustees. (Ord. 94-18, 6-27-1994)
1-6H-3: BOND AND OATH:
The director of public works shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
village a bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the board
of trustees, in such form, manner and sum as is or shall hereafter be provided
by law or by resolution of the board of trustees, and he shall take the
customary oath of office before entering upon the duties of such office. (Ord.
94-18, 6-27-1994)
1-6H-4: DUTIES:
A.   Enumeration: The duties of the director of public works shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
1.   Perform all duties prescribed by law or ordinance to be performed by the
director of public works, formerly known as the superintendent of public works.
2.   Supervise the maintenance, cleaning and repair of the storm and sanitary
sewer systems.
3.   Supervise the provision of potable water and water for fire suppression to
the village through monitoring, testing and implementing appropriate
regulations; maintaining and repairing water mains, hydrants, and valves;
maintaining the elevated tank and pumping system; and advising residents and
commercial customers regarding connections to the village water distribution
system.
4.   Supervise the maintenance, cleaning and repair of village streets,
sidewalks and alleys to provide safe and efficient access for residents,
visitors and emergency vehicles through snow and ice control measures; clearing
of branches, trees and other results of storm damage; street sweeping; and
surface repairs.
5.   Supervise the safe and efficient collection and disposal of household
refuse, yard waste materials and recyclable materials.
6.   Supervise the maintenance of all village buildings, grounds and other
properties.
7.   Advise the village president and board of trustees, the village
administrator and other operating departments on appropriate matters under
consideration.
8.   Report, not less than once a month, the activities of the public works
department, information deemed necessary and appropriate, and information
requested by the village administrator.
9.   Serve as custodian of all property provided for the use of the director of
public works.
B.   Additional Duties: Such duties shall include all others necessary and
appropriate to those prescribed by state law, and as from time to time may be
determined and assigned by the village president, the board of trustees or the
village administrator. (Ord. 94-18, 6-27-1994)
ARTICLE I. BUILDING OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-6I-1: Building Commissioner
1-6I-2: Deputy Building Commissioner; Building Inspector
1-6I-3: Compensation
1-6I-4: Powers And Duties
1-6I-5: Violations; Penalty
1-6I-1: BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
There is hereby created the office of building commissioner in and for the
village, which officer shall be appointed by the village president, upon the
recommendation of the village administrator, by and with the consent of the
board of trustees, and shall hold office for a term of one year and until his
successor shall be appointed and qualified. (1988 Code § 1-6I-1)
1-6I-2: DEPUTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER; BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building commissioner may appoint, by and with the approval of the village
administrator and board of trustees, a deputy building commissioner who shall
be employed in the absence of the building commissioner to perform all of the
duties of the building commissioner, and a building inspector who shall perform
the duties hereinafter set forth. In addition thereto, the building
commissioner may also appoint, by and with the approval of the village
administrator and board of trustees, a deputy building inspector who shall be
empowered in the absence of the building inspector to perform all of the duties
of the building inspector. (1988 Code § 1-6I-2)
1-6I-3: COMPENSATION:
The building commissioner, deputy building commissioner, building inspector and
deputy building inspector shall receive such compensation as may be established
from time to time by the village administrator with the approval of the board
of trustees. (1988 Code § 1-6I-3)
1-6I-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
A.   Building Commissioner:
1.   Building, Zoning Compliance; Supervise Inspector: It shall be the duty of
the building commissioner to see to the enforcement of the provisions of all
village ordinances relating to building and zoning and to supervise the
building inspector in the performance of the duties of said office.
2.   Building Inspections: The building commissioner shall have the power to
make, or cause to be made, entry at any reasonable hour into any building or
premises where the work of altering, repairing or constructing any building or
structure is going on or into any other building or premises for the purpose of
making inspections.
3.   Stop Work Orders: The building commissioner shall have the power to order
all work stopped on buildings or structures in the course of construction,
alteration or repair, when such work is being done in violation of any
provision of any ordinance relating thereto, or in violation of the zoning
title. Such work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such stop order
except on written permission of the building commissioner or by order of the
village president or village administrator; provided, however, that if the stop
order is oral, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour
thereafter. Such written stop order may be served by any police officer of the
village.
4.   Suspected Violators, Inspections By Commissioner: Upon the request of a
tenant or owner of property which is located wholly or partly within three
hundred feet (300') of any premises in, about or upon which a violation of the
village building or zoning ordinance may occur or continue, or upon the request
of any member of the board of trustees, the building commissioner shall inspect
said premises, and if no such violation is found to have occurred or to be
continuing, the person requesting such inspection, other than a village
trustee, shall pay the costs of such inspection. If, however, such violation is
found to have occurred or to be continuing, the costs of such inspection shall
be paid by the owner of said premises or such other person guilty of such
violation. The costs of inspection shall be those fixed by resolution or
ordinance of the board of trustees.
B.   Building Inspector:
1.   Building, Plumbing Work Compliance: It shall be the duty of the building
inspector to inspect all buildings or structures being erected or altered, and
the work of all trades therein, as frequently as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the village ordinances, to make such reports and
recommendations as may be deemed necessary and proper by the building
commissioner, and perform such additional duties as may be required by the
building commissioner. The building commissioner may be appointed building
inspector, and if qualified, the building inspector may be empowered to perform
all of the duties of the plumbing inspector of the village 1 . The building
inspector shall be appointed by the village president upon recommendation of
the village administrator, with the consent of the board of trustees.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the village shall
have the power to contract for building inspection services with a qualified
inspector or another governmental body.
2.   Additional Duties: The building inspector shall have all of the rights,
duties and powers of the building commissioner as set forth in subsection A of
this section. (1988 Code § 1-6I-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-6J-1 of this chapter.
1-6I-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order of the building
commissioner or building inspector shall be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum penalty provided in section 1-4-1 of
this title for each day on which any work in violation of such order is done.
(1988 Code § 1-6I-5; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE J. PLUMBING INSPECTOR
SECTION:
1-6J-1: Creation; Appointment; Qualifications; Term
1-6J-2: Inspection Fees
1-6J-3: Deputy Plumbing Inspector
1-6J-4: Inspections; Violations; Penalty
1-6J-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM:
There is hereby created the office of plumbing inspector, who shall be
appointed by the village president, upon the recommendation of the village
administrator, by and with the consent of the board of trustees, at the first
regular meeting of the board of trustees in the month of May, annually, or as
soon thereafter as may be necessary. The plumbing inspector shall hold office
for one year and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. Said
individual shall be a competent plumbing inspector having practical experience
in the plumbing business or the inspection of plumbing. The building inspector
of the village, or his assistant, may be appointed as either plumbing inspector
or deputy plumbing inspector of the village 1 . (1988 Code § 1-6J-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-6I-4B1 of this chapter.
1-6J-2: INSPECTION FEES:
The plumbing inspector or deputy plumbing inspector shall be entitled to a
plumbing inspection fee, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "construction/building fees", for each
plumbing fixture inspected in excess of five (5). (1988 Code § 1-6J-2; amd.
2009 Code)
1-6J-3: DEPUTY PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
The plumbing inspector may appoint, by and with the approval of the board of
trustees and village administrator, a deputy plumbing inspector, who shall be
empowered, in the absence of the plumbing inspector, to perform all the duties
of the plumbing inspector. (1988 Code § 1-6J-3)
1-6J-4: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
The plumbing inspector shall have access, during all reasonable hours of
daytime, to all buildings in the village for the inspection of existing
plumbing and systems of drainage, and shall be given every opportunity for a
careful examination. If the same are found to have improperly sealed taps,
leaky pipes or drains, stack openings not properly located in regard to window
or door openings, or cracked stacks allowing sewer gas to escape, or otherwise
fail to comply with the building or plumbing code provisions of the ordinances
of the village 1 , or the state statutes, in such case made and provided, they
shall be condemned and the faults remedied within thirty (30) days after the
notice is given in writing. Failure on the part of the owner to make such
changes as will render such drainage or plumbing satisfactory shall subject the
offender to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each day on which any work in violation of this article
remains uncorrected. (1988 Code § 1-6J-4; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
ARTICLE K. BUDGET OFFICER 1
SECTION:
1-6K-1: Creation; Appointment; Term; Removal
1-6K-2: Hold Other Office; Compensation
1-6K-3: Bond And Oath
1-6K-4: Powers And Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-6B-5 of this chapter.
1-6K-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERM; REMOVAL:
There is hereby created the office of budget officer. The budget officer shall
be designated by the village president with the approval of the corporate
authorities. The budget officer shall serve at the pleasure of the village
president and may be removed by the village president at any time. (Ord. 91-18,
12-23-1991)
1-6K-2: HOLD OTHER OFFICE; COMPENSATION:
The budget officer may hold another municipal office, either elected or
appointed. He may receive compensation for both offices, unless one of said
offices is a full time position for which said officer is being compensated on
a full time basis. If the budget officer is to be compensated, such
compensation shall be as determined from time to time by the corporate
authorities of the village. (Ord. 91-18, 12-23-1991)
1-6K-3: BOND AND OATH:
Prior to entry into office, the budget officer shall execute, acknowledge and
deliver to the village a bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the president and board of trustees, in such form, manner and sum as is or
shall hereafter be provided by law, or by resolution of the president and board
of trustees, and he shall also take the customary oath of office before
entering upon the duties of such office. (Ord. 91-18, 12-23-1991)
1-6K-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The budget officer shall have the power and shall perform the duties set forth
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.2 through 5/8-2-9.10 and such other
duties as directed by the president and board of trustees of the village. (Ord.
91-18, 12-23-1991)
ARTICLE L. DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
SECTION:
1-6L-1: Creation; Qualifications
1-6L-2: Appointment; Term; Compensation
1-6L-3: Bond And Oath
1-6L-4: Duties
1-6L-1: CREATION; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created the position of director of finance. This position
requires a high degree of technical training and special financial knowledge
and expertise. (Ord. 92-33, 12-14-1992)
1-6L-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION:
A.   Appointment And Term: The director of finance shall be appointed by the
village president, upon the recommendation of the village administrator and by
and with the approval of the board of trustees. The director of finance shall
hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified.
B.   Compensation: The director of finance shall receive such compensation as
shall be established by the village administrator and approved by the board of
trustees from time to time. (Ord. 92-33, 12-14-1992)
1-6L-3: BOND AND OATH:
The director of finance shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the village a
bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the board of
trustees, in such form, manner and sum as is or shall hereafter be provided by
law or by resolution of the board of trustees, and he shall also take the
customary oath of office before entering upon the duties of such office. (Ord.
92-33, 12-14-1992)
1-6L-4: DUTIES:
A.   The duties of the director of finance shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
1.   Prepare and keep all financial records of the village.
2.   In the absence of the village treasurer, perform all the duties of the
village treasurer as prescribed by state law and the ordinances of the village.
3.   Invest funds in accordance with state law and the village investment
policy.
4.   Prepare warrants for the payment of all sums due from the village, listing
each item and the account out of which it is payable; which warrants shall
authorize the issuance of a voucher or check as provided by law for the payment
of each item. A list of all items to be paid shall be submitted to the board of
trustees. Approval of such list of items to be paid by the board of trustees on
a roll call vote shall constitute the village board approval of the payment of
all expenses listed thereon; provided, that the board of trustees may, in the
motion to approve payment, except specific items from such approval, in which
case, such items shall not be paid.
5.   Report to the corporate authorities, as often as they require, a full and
detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of the village, as shown by
his books, up to the time of the report.
6.   Prepare the annual budget (appropriation ordinance) and tax levy ordinance
in time for their enactment and filing each year as required by law.
7.   Serve as treasurer of the police pension fund in accordance with state
law.
8.   Make or authorize the making of all purchases of materials, supplies,
equipment or services for the village, subject to the supervision and
authorization of the board of trustees and the village administrator in the
manner provided by law and subject to the limitations imposed by law and the
village purchasing procedures manual.
9.   Keep accounts showing the fiscal condition of the village at all times,
including the current and anticipated revenues and expenses of all municipal
funds and accounts.
10.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the debits and
credits belonging thereto.
11.   Keep all books, papers, vouchers, warrants, documents and all other
instruments in writing, appertaining to his office, at the village hall, which
said books and documents shall at all times be open for inspection by or at the
direction of the village president, board of trustees, village clerk or village
administrator.
12.   Prepare and file annually with the village clerk, within six (6) months
after the end of each fiscal year, an account of monies received and
expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year. The contents, filing
and publication requirements shall be those prescribed by state law.
13.   Hold all monies received on any special assessment as a special fund, to
be applied to the payment of the improvement for which the assessment was made,
and the monies shall be used for no other purpose except to reimburse the
village for monies expended for such improvement.
B.   Such duties shall include all others necessary and appropriate to those
prescribed by state law, and as from time to time may be determined and
assigned by the village president, the board of trustees or the village
administrator. (Ord. 92-33, 12-14-1992)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conduct Of Elections
1-7-2: Contesting Elections
1-7-1: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
The schedule, manner of conduct, voting, and canvass of elections in the
village shall be in accordance with the general election laws of the state of
Illinois. (1988 Code § 1-8-1)
1-7-2: CONTESTING ELECTIONS:
The election of any village official, or the director of the library board, or
other village elections, may be contested by any elector of the village, and
all proceedings and the method of contesting shall be in accordance with the
general election laws of the state of Illinois. (1988 Code § 1-8-2)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE TAXATION
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC BENEFIT TAX AND FUND
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Public Benefit Tax
1-8A-2: Public Benefit Fund
1-8A-1: PUBLIC BENEFIT TAX:
There shall be levied, at such times as provided by the board of trustees, in
addition to the taxes now authorized by law, and in addition to the amount
authorized to be levied for general purposes as provided by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-1 and 5/9-2-39, and all amendments thereto, a tax as
set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of all taxable property in
the village, to be known as the "public benefit tax". (1988 Code § 1-9A-1; amd.
2009 Code)
1-8A-2: PUBLIC BENEFIT FUND:
The funds arising from such tax shall be known as a "public benefit fund",
which fund shall be used solely for the purpose of paying that portion of the
several amounts heretofore assessed against the village for public benefit, as
well as paying any such amounts as may be hereafter assessed for such benefit
under and in pursuance of any ordinance that may be hereafter passed, including
construction of a road or street jointly with the state of Illinois or the
county of Lake, or both. (1988 Code § 1-9A-2)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Definitions
1-8B-2: Imposition Of Tax
1-8B-3: Exceptions
1-8B-4: Tax Is Additional
1-8B-5: Returns; Payment Of Tax
1-8B-6: Erroneous, Insufficient Payments
1-8B-7: Penalties
1-8B-8: Effective Date Of Tax
1-8B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (1988 Code § 1-9B-1; amd.
Ord. 96-4, 2-12-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
1-8B-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is hereby imposed a tax upon all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: (1988 Code § 1-9B-2; amd. Ord. 96-4, 2-12-1996, eff.
4-1-1996; Ord. 99-8, 3-8-1999, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1999)
A.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the village,
and not for resale, at the percentage rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross receipts
therefrom.
B.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the
village and not for resale, at the percentage rate, as set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross receipts
therefrom; provided, however, that the tax imposed by this article shall not
apply with respect to gross receipts pertaining to bills for distributing,
supplying, furnishing, or selling electricity where the use or consumption of
the electricity is subject to the tax imposed by article C of this chapter.
(1988 Code § 1-9B-2; amd. Ord. 96-4, 2-12-1996, eff. 4-1-1996; Ord. 99-8, 3-8-
1999, eff. retroactive to 1-1-1999; 2009 Code)
1-8B-3: EXCEPTIONS:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or
electricity be subject to taxation under the provisions of the municipal
retailers' occupation tax act authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-1, as amended. (1988 Code § 1-9B-3; amd. Ord. 96-4, 2-12-1996, eff. 4-1-
1996; 2009 Code)
1-8B-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer, if any, as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (1988 Code § 1-9B-
4)
1-8B-5: RETURNS; PAYMENT OF TAX:
A.   Contents Of Returns: On or before the last day of February, each taxpayer
shall make a return to the village treasurer for the months of November,
December, and January, stating: (1988 Code § 1-9B-5; amd. 2009 Code)
1.   Name of the taxpayer;
2.   The taxpayer's principal place of business;
3.   The taxpayer's gross receipts during those months, upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed;
4.   Amount of tax; and
5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate authorities
may require.
B.   Quarterly Returns: On or before the last day of every third month
thereafter, each taxpayer shall make a like return to the village treasurer for
a corresponding three (3) month period.
C.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall,
at the time of making such return, pay to the village treasurer, the amount of
tax herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer
may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon the differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts. (1988 Code § 1-9B-5)
1-8B-6: ERRONEOUS, INSUFFICIENT PAYMENTS:
A.   Credit For Erroneous Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this article, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this article from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
B.   Statute Of Limitations Regarding Insufficient Payment: No action to
recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this section shall be
commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount. (1988
Code § 1-9B-6)
1-8B-7: PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who makes a late return or payment, who fails to make a return,
who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of
this article shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-8K-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8B-8: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The tax provided herein shall be based upon the "gross receipts", as defined in
section
1-8B-1 of this article, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or
after November 1, 1968. (1988 Code § 1-9B-8; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE C. MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Definitions
1-8C-2: Imposition Of Tax
1-8C-3: Exceptions
1-8C-4: Collection And Remittance Of Tax; Administrative Procedures
1-8C-5: Reselling Electricity
1-8C-6: Tax Is Additional
1-8C-7: Penalties
1-8C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois
municipal code 1 , directly in the generation, production, transmission,
delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering the electricity to the purchaser. (Ord.
98-36, 12-14-1998, eff. 1-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
1-8C-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
A.   Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and any and all
applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the rates set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes". (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-1998, eff.
1-1-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
of the state of Illinois; nor shall any tax be imposed upon any person engaged
in a business or privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the
same rate upon all persons engaged in business of the same class in the
village, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising the
same privilege within the village.
C.   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after February 1, 1999; and with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to
such customers for delivery of services in accordance with section 16-104 of
the public utilities act 1 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or
after December 31, 2000, whichever issuance occurs sooner. (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-
1998, eff. 1-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
1-8C-3: EXCEPTIONS:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this article for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1, as amended. (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-1998, eff. 1-1-1999; amd.
2009 Code)
1-8C-4: COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE OF TAX; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
A.   Collection: Subject to the provision of section
1-8C-5 of this article regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this article shall be collected from purchasers, by the
person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity
to such purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the
person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the
same time and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity.
B.   Debt: Any tax required to be collected by this article, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity; provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible; and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
C.   Administrative Charge: Persons delivering electricity shall collect the
tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge and an amount
equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse themselves for
their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon
request. For purposes of this article, any partial payment of a billed amount
not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the
delivery of electricity. No administrative charge may be claimed by a retailer
for tax not timely remitted to the village.
D.   Returns: The return and accompanying remittance shall be due on or before
the last day of the month following the quarters ending January, March, July,
and October during which the tax is collected. Every tax collector shall, on a
quarterly basis, file a return with the village treasurer, stating the
following:
1.   Name of retailer.
2.   Retailer's principal place of business.
3.   Retailer's kilowatt hour usage detail during the previous month upon which
the tax is imposed.
4.   Amount of the tax.
5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate authorities
or the village treasurer may require.
E.   Direct Payment: If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the
tax from the purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under section
1-8C-5 of this article, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form and
pay the tax directly to the village treasurer as prescribed by subsection D of
this section. (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-1998, eff. 1-1-1999)
F.   Books And Records: Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay
the tax imposed by this article, shall keep accurate books and records of its
business or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under
this article. Subject to the applicable provisions of section
1-8K-4 of this chapter. The books and records shall be subject to and available
for inspection at all times during business hours of the day. (Ord. 2000-18,
12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
G.   Credits And Refunds: Notwithstanding any other provision, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this article unless
the person files a claim for refund or credit within three (3) years after the
date on which the tax was paid or remitted. (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-1998, eff. 1-1-
1999)
1-8C-5: RESELLING ELECTRICITY:
A.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the village
treasurer and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity,
and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
B.   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the village
treasurer for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it
is not liable for the tax imposed by this article on any purchases of
electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the village may
reasonably require.
C.   Upon approval of the application, the village treasurer shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
D.   The village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person fails
to pay any tax payable under this article for electricity used or consumed by
the person, or if the number: 1) was obtained through misrepresentation; or 2)
is no longer necessary because the person has discontinued making resales.
E.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption and
partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this article
directly to the village pursuant to subsection 1-8C-4E of this article on the
amount of electricity that the reseller uses or consumes, and shall collect and
remit the tax pursuant to section
1-8C-4 of this article on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller
to a purchaser. Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller; provided, that the person reports to the
village the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the village may reasonably require. (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-
1998, eff. 1-1-1999)
1-8C-6: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed by this article shall be in addition to the payment of money,
or value of products or services furnished, to the village by the retailer or
the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other
public places or installation and maintenance therein, thereon, or thereunder
of poles, wires, pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the
retailer's or taxpayer's business. (Ord. 98-36, 12-14-1998, eff. 1-1-1999)
1-8C-7: PENALTIES:
A.   Any taxpayer who makes a late return or payment, who fails to make a
return, who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other
provision of this article shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-8K-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
B.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 98-36, 12-14-1998, eff. 1-1-1999)
ARTICLE D. HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION, SERVICE OCCUPATION AND
USE TAXES
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
1-8D-2: Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
1-8D-3: Home Rule Municipal Use Tax
1-8D-4: Collection Of Taxes
1-8D-5: Tax Delinquencies; License Suspension Or Revocation
1-8D-6: Proceeds Of Taxes
1-8D-7: Effect On Other Regulations
1-8D-8: Severability
1-8D-9: Effective Date Of Taxes
1-8D-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A.   Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an
item of personal property, titled or registered with an agency of the
government of the state of Illinois, at retail in the village at the percentage
rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business. The tax shall not be imposed on
the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has
been prepared for immediate consumption), prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics. (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005; amd. 2009
Code)
B.   Reimbursement: Persons subject to the taxes imposed under subsection A of
this section may reimburse themselves for their seller's tax liability by
separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated
in combination, in a single amount, with the state tax that sellers are
required to collect under the Illinois use tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/1 et seq., pursuant to such bracket schedules as the Illinois
department of revenue may prescribe.
C.   Rights And Obligations: In the administration of and compliance with this
section, the Illinois department of revenue and the persons who are subject to
the home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax shall have the same rights,
remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and be subject to the same
conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties, and definitions of terms, and
employ the same modes of procedure, as are prescribed in section 8-11-1 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
1-8D-2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A.   Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged, in the village, in the business of making sales of service at the
percentage rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the selling price of all
tangible personal property transferred by such persons either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service. The tax shall not be imposed on the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared for
immediate consumption), prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics. (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Reimbursement: Persons subject to the taxes imposed under subsection A of
this section may reimburse themselves for their service tax liability by
separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated
in combination, in a single amount, with the state tax that service persons are
required to collect under the Illinois service use tax act, 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 110/1 et seq., pursuant to such bracket schedules as the
Illinois department of revenue may prescribe.
C.   Rights And Obligations: In the administration of and compliance with this
section, the Illinois department of revenue and the persons who are subject to
the home rule municipal service occupation tax shall have the same rights,
remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and be subject to the same
conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties, and definitions of terms, and
employ the same modes of procedure, as are prescribed in section 8-11-5 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
1-8D-3: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
A.   Imposition Of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using, in
the village, any item of tangible personal property which is purchased at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered at a location within
the corporate limits of the village, with an agency of the state of Illinois,
at the percentage rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", and based on the selling
price of such tangible personal property, as "selling price" is defined in
section 2 of the Illinois use tax act, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/2.
(Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Rights And Obligations: In the administration of and compliance with this
section, the Illinois department of revenue and the persons who are subject to
the home rule municipal use tax shall have the same rights, remedies,
privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and be subject to the same
conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties, and definitions of terms, and
employ the same modes of procedure, as are prescribed in section 8-11-6 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6.
1-8D-4: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
The home rule sales, service, and use taxes imposed under this article, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed, shall be collected and enforced by the
state of Illinois department of revenue. Nothing in this section shall prevent
the village from collecting the home rule municipal use tax imposed pursuant to
section
1-8D-3 of this article in any situation where such tax is not collected by the
Illinois department of revenue. (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005)
1-8D-5: TAX DELINQUENCIES; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A.   Notice Of Delinquency: If the village administrator determines that a
person required to pay any of the home rule sales, service, and use taxes
imposed by this article has failed to pay to the village all such taxes due
pursuant to this article, the village administrator shall notify the person of
that determination in writing. The notice shall also set forth a date on which
the person may contest such determination in an administrative hearing before a
member of the village board of trustees appointed by the village president.
B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: If, after an administrative hearing,
it is found that any person has wilfully evaded its responsibility to collect
and pay to the village the home rule sales, service, and use taxes due pursuant
to this article, the village administrator may, in addition to any other
authorized actions, suspend or revoke any and all village licenses issued to
that person. Any license suspension or revocation resulting from the hearing
shall not relieve or discharge the person of civil liability for the nonpayment
of the home rule sales, service, and use taxes. (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005)
1-8D-6: PROCEEDS OF TAXES:
All funds and proceeds from the home rule sales, service, and use taxes,
including, without limitation, all interest and penalties collected or received
by the village pursuant to this article, shall be credited to and deposited
into the general fund of the village unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord.
2005-12, 5-9-2005)
1-8D-7: EFFECT ON OTHER REGULATIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to authorize any activity or use not
specifically authorized by the village zoning regulations, or to, in any other
way, amend or make any other authorization or approval under the village zoning
regulations or this code. (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-2005)
1-8D-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this article, or the application of any portion of this
article to any specific person, is found invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this article, or the application
of any other portion of this article to any other specific person, which
provisions and applications shall be given full force and effect to the maximum
extent possible, notwithstanding any finding of partial invalidity. (Ord. 2005-
12, 5-9-2005)
1-8D-9: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAXES:
The obligations to collect and remit the taxes imposed in this article shall be
administered and enforced on and after January 1, 2006. (Ord. 2005-12, 5-9-
2005; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE E. AUTOMOBILE RENTING TAXES
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
1-8E-2: Automobile Rental Use Tax
1-8E-1: AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
A.   Imposition Of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in the village at the percentage rate, set out
in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross receipts from
such rentals made in the course of such business while this section is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-7. (1988 Code § 1-9C-10-1; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Report: Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall
file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
to purchasers for use or consumption 1 , approved June 29, 1933, as amended.
C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to
the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of
the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (1988 Code § 1-9C-10-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 155/2, 155/3.
1-8E-2: AUTOMOBILE RENTAL USE TAX:
A.   Imposition Of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
the village an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of state government in the village
at the rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the rental price of such
automobile while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8. (1988 Code § 1-9C-10-2; amd. 2009
Code)
B.   Responsibility For Tax: The tax provided in this section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in the village.
C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois department of revenue. (1988 Code § 1-9C-10-2)
ARTICLE F. FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
1-8F-1: Imposition Of Tax
1-8F-2: Agent's Account And Report
1-8F-3: Payment Of Tax
1-8F-4: Late Reports And Payments
1-8F-5: Proceeds Of Tax
1-8F-1: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under the laws of
this state and which are engaged in the village in effecting or soliciting fire
insurance shall pay to the village treasurer or the representative of the
treasurer, upon July 15 of each and every year, at the percentage rate, set out
in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross receipts of
premiums received by such corporation, company or association or their agency
or agents for business effected or transacted for fire insurance within the
village for the year ending July 1, preceding said dates. The amount shall be a
tax or license fee upon all such corporations, companies or associations
transacting such business within the village. (1988 Code § 1-9C-11; amd. 2009
Code)
1-8F-2: AGENT'S ACCOUNT AND REPORT:
Every person acting as agent or otherwise, for or upon behalf of such
corporation, company or association, shall, on or before July 15 of each and
every year, render to the village clerk a full, true and just account, verified
by oath, of all the premiums which, during the year ending on July 1 of each
and every year, shall have been received by him, or any other person for him,
on behalf of such corporation, company or association, and shall fully and
specifically set out in said report the amount or amounts received as premiums
for said fire insurance. (1988 Code § 1-9C-11)
1-8F-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
The agent or agents shall also, at the time of the making of the report
mentioned in section
1-8F-2 of this article, pay to the village treasurer the percentage rate, set
out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", upon the gross receipts of
such corporation, company or association obtained as premiums for effecting
fire insurance in the village as specified herein. (1988 Code § 1-9C-11; amd.
2009 Code)
1-8F-4: LATE REPORTS AND PAYMENTS:
A.   If the account is not rendered on or before the day herein designated for
that purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for the said tax or license fee
shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for any such
corporation, company or association to transact any business of fire insurance
in the village unless there has been full compliance with requirements of this
article. Nevertheless, this section shall in no way affect the validity of any
risk that may be taken in violation hereof between such corporation, company or
association and the person so insured. (1988 Code § 1-9C-11)
B.   If any such person, corporation, company or association shall fail to
render the account or report herein designated, by the day required by
ordinance, or if the above mentioned rate, as a tax or license fee, shall
remain unpaid after July 15, every such person, corporation, company or
association shall forfeit and pay to the village the fine provided in section
1-8K-12 of this chapter for each and every offense, and in addition to such
penalty, the village shall recover, in an action in its name, for its use
against such corporation, company or association so failing to make such
report, or pay such license fee or tax, the full amount of the said license fee
or tax which would be due under the provisions of this article, and such
person, corporation, company or association shall be subject to prosecution for
violation of division 10 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-
2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8F-5: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
Any and all sums so received under the provisions hereof shall be paid over by
the village treasurer to the fire department of the village, and shall be kept
by the latter as a fund separate and apart from other funds in his hands; and
shall be used for maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department of the
village. (1988 Code § 1-9C-11)
ARTICLE G. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
1-8G-1: Definitions
1-8G-2: Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions
1-8G-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
1-8G-4: Tax Returns
1-8G-5: Reselling Telecommunications
1-8G-6: Severability
1-8G-7: Effective Date Of Tax
1-8G-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money, whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made pursuant
to: 1) the tax imposed by this article; 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act 1 ; 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code; 4) 911 surcharges; or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act 2 , as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills
by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village;
C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data or
information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time sharing agreement;
D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased or
rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are disaggregated
and separately identified from other charges;
E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-222.1
of the public utilities act 3  to the extent of such exemption and during the
period of time specified by the department of commerce and community affairs;
F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in
connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this article has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices; or
I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the telecommunications
infrastructure maintenance fee act 4 .
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Every person engaged in the business of making "sales at retail" as
defined in this section. The department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term): Any
retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute, and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "service address" means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act 5 . For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this article.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this article. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act 6 . (Ord. 2002-18, 11-25-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-221, 5/9-222.
3 2. 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1.
4 1. 220 ILCS 5/13-511.
5 1. 35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.
6 1. 35 ILCS 120/2-27.
1-8G-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts
or privileges:
1.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village intrastate telecommunications by a person at the percentage rate, set
out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross charge for such
telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
2.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village interstate telecommunications by a person at the percentage rate, set
out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross charge for such
telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To prevent actual
multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under
this subsection A2, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax
in another state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax
enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the amount
of such tax properly due and paid in such other state which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this state. (Ord.
2002-18, 11-25-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Exemptions: The tax imposed by this article is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
village. (Ord. 2002-18, 11-25-2002)
1-8G-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer by
a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be remitted
by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected pursuant
to or as authorized by this article and any such tax collected by such retailer
and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt owed by
the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by
adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner prescribed by the
department. The tax authorized by this article shall constitute a debt of the
taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in
the same manner as the original charge for such sale at retail. If the retailer
fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required
to pay the tax directly to the department in the manner provided by the
department.
B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2002-18, 11-25-2002)
1-8G-4: TAX RETURNS:
On or before August 31, 2003, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this article on telecommunications retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act 1  and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to
implement the act. (Ord. 2002-18, 11-25-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
1-8G-5: RESELLING TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be a
reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the department
for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will show the
department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by this
article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional information
as the department may reasonably require.
B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale number
from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in connection
with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is nontaxable
because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2002-18, 11-25-2002)
1-8G-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this article, or the application of any provision of this
article, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this article, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable unless otherwise provided by this article. (Ord. 2002-
18, 11-25-2002)
1-8G-7: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
A.   This article shall take effect for all bills issued on or after July 1,
2003; and
B.   Any amounts due or payable to the village for any tax periods ending prior
to July 1, 2003, shall nevertheless remain payable as if this article had not
been adopted. (Ord. 2002-18, 11-25-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE H. HOME RULE HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
1-8H-1: Definitions
1-8H-2: Imposition Of Tax; Tax Is Additional
1-8H-3: Payment And Collection Of Tax
1-8H-4: Reports And Records
1-8H-5: Tax Delinquencies; License Suspension Or Revocation
1-8H-6: Interest And Penalty
1-8H-7: Proceeds Of Tax
1-8H-8: Additional Penalties
1-8H-9: Effect On Other Provisions
1-8H-10: Severability
1-8H-1: DEFINITIONS:
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for consideration,
obtain temporary living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations. The
word "hotel" shall include, without limitation, inns, motels, suites, tourist
homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses, and apartment houses. For the
purposes of this article only, the word "hotel" shall include short-term rental
as defined in section
10-1-2 of this Code.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a hotel
for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005; amd. Ord. 2018-5, 4-23-2018; Ord. 2020-
3, 3-9-2020; Ord. 2021-4, 3-8-2021)
1-8H-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
A tax ("Hotel Tax") is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting, leasing, or letting of a room or rooms in a hotel in the Village
("Village hotel") at the percentage rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "taxes", of the gross rental receipts
from such rental, leasing, or letting; provided, however, that gross rental
receipts shall exclude revenues received from the renting, leasing, or letting
to permanent residents of the hotel. The ultimate incident of and liability for
payment of the Hotel Tax shall be borne by the user, lessee, or tenant of said
room or rooms. The Hotel Tax shall be in addition to all other taxes. (Ord.
2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
1-8H-3: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX:
A.   The owner and operator of each Village hotel ("owner or operator") shall
bear, jointly and severally, the duty to collect the Hotel Tax from each user,
lessee, or tenant of a room or rooms in the hotel and to otherwise comply with
the requirements of this article. Every person required to collect the Hotel
Tax shall secure payment of the Hotel Tax from the user, lessee, or tenant at
the time that such person collects the price, charge, or rent to which it
applies. Every user, lessee, or tenant shall be given a bill, invoice, receipt,
or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge, or rent upon which the
Hotel Tax is computed, and the amount of the Hotel Tax shall be stated,
charged, and shown separately thereon. The Hotel Tax shall be paid to the
person required to collect it as Trustee for and on behalf of the Village.
B.   It shall be the responsibility and duty of the Village Administrator to
collect all amounts due the Village under this article from the owner or
operator of Village hotels. (Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
1-8H-4: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
A.   Quarterly Reports:
1.   A quarterly report, on such forms as may be prescribed by the village
administrator, shall be filed by the owner or operator of each village hotel.
The quarterly report shall certify all receipts from each renting, leasing, or
letting of a room or rooms during the preceding three (3) months. The beginning
date for the reporting quarters shall be January 1, April 1, July 1, and
October 1 of each calendar year.
2.   Each quarterly report shall be accompanied by payment to the village of
all hotel taxes due and owing for the reporting quarter; provided, however,
that the owner or operator of the village hotel making the quarterly report may
retain an amount of money equal to no more than one percent (1%) of the hotel
taxes due in such quarter as compensation for services rendered in the
collection and payment of such tax. The report shall clearly identify and
calculate any retention for administrative expenses.
3.   The quarterly report shall be filed with, and the tax due and owing shall
be paid at the same time, to the village on or before the fifteenth day of the
month following the end of each quarter.
B.   Inspection Of Books And Records: The village administrator, or any person
designated by the village administrator, may enter the premises of any village
hotel for the purpose of inspecting and examining the hotel books and records
to ensure proper administration of and compliance with this article and to
otherwise enforce the collection of the hotel tax. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the village administrator or the
village administrator's duly authorized representative in the discharge of the
duties created by this article or other applicable ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
1-8H-5: TAX DELINQUENCIES; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A.   Notice Of Delinquency: If the village administrator determines that a
village hotel owner or operator has failed to deliver to the village all hotel
taxes due pursuant to this article, the village administrator shall notify the
hotel owner or operator of such determination in writing. Such notice shall
also set forth a date on which the hotel owner or operator may contest such
determination in an administrative hearing before a member of the village board
of trustees appointed by the village president.
B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: If, after an administrative hearing,
it is found that any hotel owner or operator has wilfully evaded its
responsibility to collect and pay to the village the hotel tax, the village
administrator may, in addition to any other authorized actions, suspend or
revoke any and all village licenses issued to such hotel including, without
limitation, any business or liquor licenses. Any license suspension or
revocation resulting from such hearing shall not relieve or discharge a village
hotel owner or operator of civil liability for the nonpayment of the hotel tax.
(Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
1-8H-6: INTEREST AND PENALTY:
In the event any village hotel owner or operator fails to collect and remit the
hotel tax (or any portion thereof) to the village within thirty (30) days after
the same is due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon the unpaid portion
of the hotel tax at the rate of one percent (1%) per month. In addition, in the
event any village hotel owner or operator fails to collect and remit the hotel
tax (or any portion thereof) to the village within the time prescribed in
subsection 1-8H-4A3 of this article, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
unpaid portion of the hotel tax and any interest due shall be assessed and
collected against such hotel owner or operator. (Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-
1-2005)
1-8H-7: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All funds and proceeds from the hotel tax, including without limitation, any
interest and penalties collected pursuant to this article, shall be credited to
and deposited into the general fund of the village. (Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005,
eff. 6-1-2005)
1-8H-8: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
In addition to other penalties or enforcement actions that may be imposed
pursuant to other provisions of this article or other applicable statutes or
ordinances, any person found guilty, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of
violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or
resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any provision of this article, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for the first offense, and not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for the second and each subsequent offense. Each day any
violation of any provision of this article continues to exist shall constitute
a separate punishable offense. (Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005; amd. 2009
Code)
1-8H-9: EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to authorize any activity or use not
specifically authorized by the village zoning regulations, or to, in any other
way, amend or make any other authorization or approval under the village zoning
regulations or this code. (Ord. 2005-9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
1-8H-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this article, or the application of any portion of this
article to any specific person, is found invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this article, or the application
of any other portion of this article to any other specific person, which
provisions and applications shall be given full force and effect to the maximum
extent possible, notwithstanding any finding of partial invalidity. (Ord. 2005-
9, 5-9-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
ARTICLE I. DEMOLITION TAX
SECTION:
1-8I-1: Definitions
1-8I-2: Imposition Of Tax
1-8I-3: Payment Of Tax
1-8I-4: Tax Delinquencies; Interest And Penalty
1-8I-5: Proceeds Of Tax
1-8I-6: Additional Penalties
1-8I-7: Effect On Other Provisions
1-8I-8: Severability
1-8I-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given to them in this section:
DEMOLITION: Any act or process within the control of the owner of any principal
residential building or structure:
A.   That removes or destroys the structure or building in its entirety; or
B.   That removes or destroys fifty percent (50%) or more of the "gross floor
area" of the structure or building, as the term "floor area, gross" is defined
in section
10-1-2 of this code.
DEMOLITION PERMIT: The permit issued pursuant to section
9-1-18 of this code, the village of Lake Bluff building code.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of the court. (Ord. 2005-10, 5-9-2005)
1-8I-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
A tax ("demolition tax") is imposed on any person granted a demolition permit
pursuant to section
9-1-18 of this code. The demolition tax for each demolition permit shall be
levied at the rate set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "construction/building fees", and
shall be in addition to any demolition permit fees paid pursuant to said
section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "construction/building fees", and all
other applicable fees and charges. (Ord. 2005-10, 5-9-2005)
1-8I-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
Payment of the demolition tax shall be a condition of the issuance of a
demolition permit and shall be due at the time a demolition permit is issued.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the village building
code, no demolition permit shall be issued unless payment of the demolition tax
is paid, and the building commissioner has determined that the person applying
for the demolition permit has no outstanding taxes or any other amounts owed
the village. (Ord. 2005-10, 5-9-2005)
1-8I-4: TAX DELINQUENCIES; INTEREST AND PENALTY:
Any person who demolishes a principal residential building or structure, for
which a demolition permit is required, without first paying the demolition tax
due under this article:
A.   Shall be assessed a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid portion of
the demolition tax due; and
B.   Shall pay interest on the unpaid portion of the demolition tax due at the
rate of one percent (1%) per month, which interest shall begin accruing as of
the date the demolition tax is first due. (Ord. 2005-10, 5-9-2005)
1-8I-5: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All funds and proceeds from the demolition tax, including, without limitation,
any interest and penalties collected pursuant to this article, shall be
credited to and deposited into the general fund of the village. (Ord. 2005-10,
5-9-2005)
1-8I-6: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
In addition to other penalties or enforcement actions that may be imposed
pursuant to other provisions of this article or other applicable statutes or
ordinances, any person found guilty, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of
violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or
resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any provision of this article, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for the first offense, and not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for the second and each subsequent offense. Each day any
violation of any provision of this article continues to exist shall constitute
a separate punishable offense. (Ord. 2005-10, 5-9-2005)
1-8I-7: EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to authorize any activity or use not
specifically authorized by the village zoning regulations, or to, in any other
way, amend or make any other authorization or approval under the village zoning
regulations or this code. (Ord. 2005-10, 5-9-2005)
1-8I-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this article, or the application of any portion of this
article to any specific person, is found invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this article, or the application
of any other portion of this article to any other specific person, which
provisions and applications shall be given full force and effect to the maximum
extent possible, notwithstanding any finding of partial invalidity. (Ord. 2005-
10, 5-9-2005)
ARTICLE J. HOME RULE FOOD AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TAX
SECTION:
1-8J-1: Definitions
1-8J-2: Imposition Of Tax; Tax Is Additional; Exceptions
1-8J-3: Reports And Records
1-8J-4: Tax Delinquencies; License Suspension Or Revocation
1-8J-5: Interest And Penalty
1-8J-6: Proceeds Of Tax
1-8J-7: Additional Penalties
1-8J-8: Effect On Other Provisions
1-8J-9: Severability
1-8J-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Article, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given to them in this Section. All terms, phrases and words
used in this Article but not defined in this Section shall have the meanings
given to them elsewhere in this Code.
 
               Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint
               stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation,
PERSON:        limited liability company, or a receiver, executor, trustee,
               guardian, or other representative appointed by order of the
               court.
               Any solid, liquid, powder or other food substance used or
               intended to be used for human consumption and which has been
PREPARED FOOD: prepared for immediate consumption and any beverage used or
               intended to be used for human consumption and which has been
               prepared for immediate consumption. (Ord. 2005-13, 5-9-2005;
               amd. Ord. 2023-25, 10-23-2023)
 
1-8J-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; TAX IS ADDITIONAL; EXCEPTIONS:
A tax is imposed on the sale at retail of prepared food and alcoholic beverages
prepared for immediate consumption, sold in the village by a person who
provides, on such person’s own premises or on premises of another pursuant to
license, franchise, or other contractual agreement, facilities for on-premises
or off-premises consumption of that prepared food or alcoholic beverage (“food
and beverage tax”). The food and beverage tax shall be levied at the percentage
rate, set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category “taxes”, of the purchase price of each
sale and is in addition to all other taxes. The food and beverage tax shall not
apply to: a) meals provided to patients or residents of healthcare facilities,
nursing homes, or other such institutions incidental to other services where no
separate consideration is charged for meals; b) food dispensed from vending
machines; or c) food sold under the authority of public or private school
systems. The ultimate incidence and liability for payment of the food and
beverage tax shall be upon the seller of the prepared food or alcoholic
beverage. (Ord. 2005-13, 5-9-2005; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2023-25, 10-23-2023)
1-8J-3: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
A.   Monthly Reports:
1.   A monthly report, on forms as may be prescribed by the village
administrator, shall be filed by each person required to pay the food and
beverage tax. The monthly report shall certify all gross receipts received from
the sale of prepared food and alcoholic beverages during the preceding calendar
month (“reporting month”).
2.   Each monthly report shall be accompanied by payment to the village of all
food and beverage taxes due and owing for the reporting month; provided,
however, that the person making the monthly report may retain an amount of
money equal to no more than one percent (1%) of the food and beverage taxes due
in that month as compensation for services rendered in the collection and
payment of the tax. The report shall clearly identify and calculate any
retention for administrative expenses.
3.   The monthly report shall be filed with, and the tax due and owing shall be
paid at the same time to, the village on or before the fifteenth day of the
month following the end of each reporting month.
B.   Inspection Of Books And Records: The village administrator, or any person
designated by the village administrator, may enter the premises of any person
for the purpose of inspecting and examining the person's books and records to
ensure proper administration of and compliance with this article and to
otherwise enforce the collection of the food and beverage tax. It shall be
unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the village
administrator, or the village administrator's duly authorized representative,
in the discharge of the duties created by this article or other applicable
ordinances of the village. (Ord. 2005-13, 5-9-2005; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 10-23-
2023)
1-8J-4: TAX DELINQUENCIES; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A.   Notice Of Delinquency: If the village administrator determines that a
person required to pay the food and beverage tax has failed to pay to the
village all taxes due pursuant to this article, the village administrator shall
notify the person of that determination in writing. The notice shall also set
forth a date on which the person may contest the determination in an
administrative hearing before a member of the village board of trustees
appointed by the village president.
B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: If, after an administrative hearing,
it is found that any person has wilfully evaded its responsibility to collect
and pay to the village the food and beverage taxes due pursuant to this
article, the village administrator may, in addition to any other authorized
actions, suspend or revoke any and all village licenses issued to the person.
Any license suspension or revocation resulting from the hearing shall not
relieve or discharge the person of civil liability for the nonpayment of the
food and beverage tax. (Ord. 2005-13, 5-9-2005)
1-8J-5: INTEREST AND PENALTY:
In the event any person required to collect and remit the food and beverage tax
fails to collect and remit the tax (or any portion thereof) to the village
within thirty (30) days after the date the tax is due, as provided in
subsection 1-8J-3A3 of this article, interest shall begin and continue to
accumulate and be due upon the unpaid portion of the food and beverage tax at
the rate of one percent (1%) per month. In addition, in the event any such
person fails to collect and remit the food and beverage tax (or any portion
thereof) to the village within the time prescribed in subsection 1-8J-3A3 of
this article, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid portion of the food
and beverage tax shall be assessed and collected against such person. (Ord.
2005-13, 5-9-2005)
1-8J-6: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All funds and proceeds from the food and beverage tax, including, without
limitation, any interest and penalties collected pursuant to this article,
shall be credited to and deposited into the general fund of the village. (Ord.
2005-13, 5-9-2005)
1-8J-7: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
In addition to other penalties or enforcement actions that may be imposed
pursuant to other provisions of this article or other applicable statutes or
ordinances, any person found guilty, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of
violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or
resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any provision of this article, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for the first offense, and not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for the second and each subsequent offense. Each day any
violation of any provision of this article continues to exist shall constitute
a separate punishable offense. (Ord. 2005-13, 5-9-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
1-8J-8: EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to authorize any activity or use not
specifically authorized by the village zoning regulations, or to, in any other
way, amend or make any other authorization or approval under the village zoning
regulations or this code. (Ord. 2005-13, 5-9-2005)
1-8J-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this article, or the application of any portion of this
article to any specific person, is found invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this article, or the application
of any other portion of this article to any other specific person, which
provisions and applications shall be given full force and effect to the maximum
extent possible, notwithstanding any finding of partial invalidity. (Ord. 2005-
13, 5-9-2005)
ARTICLE K. TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-8K-1: Definitions
1-8K-2: Notice Requirements
1-8K-3: Application Of Payments
1-8K-4: Audit Procedures
1-8K-5: Credits; Refunds; Appeals
1-8K-6: Interest Rate
1-8K-7: Installment Contracts
1-8K-8: Statute Of Limitations
1-8K-9: Voluntary Disclosure
1-8K-10: Review Of Liens
1-8K-11: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Franchise Agreements
1-8K-12: Penalties
1-8K-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any village tax. The term "taxpayer"
generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the village tax to the village.
VILLAGE TAX: A tax imposed, and collected or administered, by the village.
"Village tax" does not include a tax imposed upon real property under the
Illinois property tax code 1  or fees collected by the village; except,
however, that "village tax" does include the village infrastructure maintenance
fees. In addition, fees due the village from a franchisee under a franchise
agreement with the village shall be treated in the same manner as a village tax
under this article (except where otherwise provided in the franchise
agreement), but shall not be considered a tax for any other purpose.
VILLAGE TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village finance director or his or her
authorized designee. (Ord. 2009-4, 2-9-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
1-8K-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Notice Of Audit: Whenever the village sends a protestable notice of: 1)
tax due; or 2) a bill; or 3) a claim denial; or 4) a notice of claim reduction
regarding any tax to a taxpayer, such notice shall include a written statement
of rights, which shall include the following information:
1.   The reason for the assessment; and
2.   The amount of the village tax liability proposed; and
3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
4.   The obligations of the village during the audit appeal, refund, and
collection process; and
5.   A statement that the taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after
service of the notice to protest a notice of tax determination or notice of tax
liability; and
6.   A statement that the taxpayer may request a hearing with the village tax
administrator.
B.   Delivery; Receipt: The village shall send such notice by United States
registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be deemed received by the
taxpayer upon actual receipt or on the third business day after the village
deposits the notice in any main or branch United States post office.
C.   Time Extension If Good Cause: Upon a showing of good cause by the taxpayer
satisfactory to the village tax administrator, the village tax administrator
may extend the forty five (45) day protest period by an additional period of
time not exceeding thirty (30) days. The village tax administrator, upon a
showing of good cause, also may open up any closed protest period, but only for
a period of time not exceeding thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-3: APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS:
The village shall apply any payment or remittance received pursuant to a
village tax for a tax period in the following order:
A.   First: To the tax due for that period; and
B.   Second: To interest due for the period; and
C.   Third: To penalties due for the period. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000, eff. 1-
1-2001)
1-8K-4: AUDIT PROCEDURES:
A.   Notice Of Audit: The village shall notify a taxpayer in writing of a
proposed village audit of that taxpayer's books and records. Such notice shall
specify the tax and time period to be audited and shall detail the minimum
documentation or books and records that the taxpayer must make available to the
village auditor.
B.   Time For Audit: Audits shall be held only during reasonable times of the
day and, unless impracticable, at times agreed to by the taxpayer.
C.   Overpayments: A village auditor who determines that there has been an
overpayment of tax during the course of the audit shall identify the
overpayment to the taxpayer so that the taxpayer can take the necessary steps
to recover the overpayment. If the overpayment is the result of the application
of some or all of the taxpayer's tax payment to an incorrect village entity,
then the auditor shall notify the correct village entity of the taxpayer's
application error. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-5: CREDITS; REFUNDS; APPEALS:
A.   Procedure: Any taxpayer who desires to seek a credit or a refund or
desires to appeal a determination of tax due or an assessment pursuant to a
village tax shall adhere to the following procedures:
1.   File a request for credit or refund with the village tax administrator on
a form provided by the village or, within forty five (45) days after receipt of
the village's protestable notice, file a written protest on a form provided by
the village; and
2.   Provide any supportive documents or other evidence that may display that
the village assessment of the tax was unauthorized, and direct such protest or
request to the village tax administrator; and
3.   Make any books or records of its business or activity available for audit
or inspection upon the written request of the village.
B.   Hearing: Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a request for
credit or refund or a timely written protest, and has requested a hearing, the
village tax administrator shall conduct a hearing in the following manner:
1.   The village tax administrator shall fix the time and place for a hearing
and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled
for a date within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the request for the
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
2.   No continuances of the hearing shall be granted after it has been
scheduled, except in cases when a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the taxpayer. Any continuance granted shall not exceed
fourteen (14) days.
3.   The village tax administrator shall preside at the hearing and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit, or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
C.   Village Determination: The village tax administrator, by United States
registered or certified mail, shall send to the taxpayer the tax
administrator's written determination regarding the taxpayer's protest within
forty five (45) days after receiving the taxpayer's written protest or credit
or refund form if the taxpayer does not request a hearing, or within thirty
(30) days after the conclusion of a hearing. Such determination shall include:
1.   A ruling as to whether the village tax as a whole or any portion of it was
unauthorized; and
2.   A written determination as to why the village tax or any portion of it was
authorized; and
3.   If appropriate, a certified check equaling the unauthorized amount paid by
the taxpayer and the applicable amount of interest.
D.   No Refund If Voluntary Payment: The village shall not be required to
refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time
of payment in the event that a village tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid a village tax voluntarily if the taxpayer
lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the village taxes at the
time of payment or if the taxpayer paid such taxes under duress.
E.   No Credits Or Refunds If No Remittance: The village shall not be required
to grant a credit, refund of taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has
not paid or remitted the amounts directly to the village.
F.   Four Year Limitation: Unless otherwise specifically provided in this code
or other village ordinance authorizing a village tax, no claim for a credit or
refund shall be made more than four (4) years after the date of the erroneous
payment.
G.   Interest On Overpayment: The village shall pay interest in the amount of
five percent (5%) per year for a taxpayer's overpayment of tax. (Ord. 2000-18,
12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-6: INTEREST RATE:
Except as otherwise provided by law, or as otherwise provided pursuant to the
terms of a franchise agreement, interest in the amount of nine percent (9%) per
year shall be assessed against all late payments, underpayments, and
nonpayments of a village tax. (Ord. 2009-4, 2-9-2009)
1-8K-7: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
A.   If the village shall enter into an agreement allowing a taxpayer to make
payments by installments, then the village shall not cancel such installment
agreement; except, if:
1.   The taxpayer fails to pay any amount due on time and fails to cure the
delinquency in the allowable time provided by the village; or
2.   The taxpayer fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the
installment agreement.
B.   Nothing in this section shall be construed or applied to require the
village to enter into any installment agreement. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-8: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
A.   Limitation On Determination Of Tax Or Assessment: Subject to the
provisions of subsection B of this section, and unless a specific section of
this code provides for a shorter time period, the village shall not issue a
determination of tax due or assessment:
1.   More than four (4) years after the end of the calendar year that the
return for the period was filed, or the end of the calendar year that the
return for the period was due, whichever occurs later; or
2.   More than six (6) years after the end of the calendar year that the return
for the period was due or the end of the calendar year that the return for the
period was filed, whichever occurs later, if a taxpayer failed to file a tax
return, or if the taxpayer paid or remitted less than seventy five percent
(75%) of the tax due during any four (4) year period that the village may issue
a notice of tax determination or assessment.
B.   Exception For Fraud: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of
this section, there shall be no time limitation imposed on a determination or
assessment of a village tax if the taxpayer filed a fraudulent tax return.
(Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-9: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
A.   Application: A taxpayer may file an application, on a form prepared by the
village, with the village tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the
tax due for any village tax that a taxpayer has not received a written notice
of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the village tax administrator.
B.   Payment And Interest Required: A taxpayer who files a voluntary disclosure
application must agree to pay the amount of the village tax due, plus interest
of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior to the filing of the
application, but not more than four (4) years before the date of filing the
application.
C.   No Extra Liability: Except for the payment of the full amount of tax and
interest due under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application shall not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty
for any period before the date the application was filed; provided, however,
that if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due
as provided in this section, then the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax
along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax. If the underpayment was
the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, then the application shall be
deemed invalid and void.
D.   Time Limitation For Payment: The payment of tax and interest required
under this section shall be made within ninety (90) days after the filing of
the voluntary disclosure application, or the date agreed to in writing by the
village tax administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts
owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under
this section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination
and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed, or the date
agreed to by the village tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2000-18,
12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-10: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The village tax administrator shall establish, by administrative order of the
village, a process of reviewing liens filed by the village against taxpayers.
If any lien is determined to be improper, then the village tax administrator
shall cause such lien to be removed at the village's own expense, shall correct
the taxpayer's credit record, and shall correct any public disclosure of the
improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-8K-11: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS:
A.   The village shall publish its taxing ordinances and shall make copies of
its taxing ordinances readily available to the public on request. The posting
of such tax ordinances on the internet shall be deemed to satisfy the
publication requirement of this subsection.
B.   For fees due under a franchise agreement and governed by this article, the
provision of a fully executed copy of the franchise agreement to the franchisee
shall be deemed sufficient notice of the fees. (Ord. 2009-4, 2-9-2009)
1-8K-12: PENALTIES:
A.   Late Filing And Payment Penalty: If a return is filed late, then the
taxpayer shall pay a penalty for such late filing of five percent (5%) of the
amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return. If the taxpayer makes a
late payment, then the taxpayer shall pay a penalty of five percent (5%) of the
tax due and not timely paid or remitted. Late filing and payment penalties
shall not apply to a particular taxpayer if, but only if, a failure to file
penalty is imposed on that taxpayer by the village. The village tax
administrator may determine, in the sole exercise of his or her sound judgment,
that the late filing or late payment was due to a reasonable cause and abate
some or all the penalty.
B.   Failure To File Penalty: If no return is filed before the issuance of a
notice of tax deficiency or of tax liability to the taxpayer, then the penalty
for such failure to file shall be twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to
have been filed. A village tax administrator may determine, in the sole
exercise of his or her sound judgment, that the failure to file a return was
due to reasonable cause and abate some or all of the penalty.
C.   Additional Penalties: In the event that any taxpayer noncompliance with
the provisions of a village tax is a result of wilful or fraudulent disregard
of the village tax laws, such taxpayer shall be additionally subject to the
general penalty provisions of this code 1  (including any criminal penalties)
and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the full amount of the
tax due, plus the applicable amount of interest. (Ord. 2000-18, 12-11-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this title.
ARTICLE L. RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX GRANT PROGRAMS
SECTION:
1-8L-1: Definitions
1-8L-2: Administrative Procedures
1-8L-3: Senior Citizen Property Tax Grants
1-8L-4: Historic Preservation Property Tax Grants
1-8L-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Article, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given herein:
APPLICANT:     The person or entity applying for a grant under this Article L.
AUTHORIZATION: As this term is defined and interpreted in the Village's Historic Preservation
               Regulations (Title 9, Chapter 14).
DEMOLITION:    As this term is defined and interpreted in the Village's Historic Preservation
               Regulations (Title 9, Chapter 14).
DEMOLITION,    As this term is defined and interpreted in the Village's Historic Preservation
NATURAL:       Regulations (Title 9, Chapter 14).
               A senior citizen hereunder or a senior citizen and his spouse living together
HOUSEHOLD:     in the same residence, regardless of whether other family members also reside
               therein.
HOUSEHOLD      The combined income of the members of a household.
INCOME:
               Adjusted gross income, properly reportable for Federal income tax purposes
               under the provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, modified by adding
               thereto the sum of the following amounts to the extent deducted or excluded
               from gross income in the computation of adjusted gross income:
               A.   All amounts paid or accrued as interest or dividends during the taxable
               year;
               B.   Fifty (50) percent of the excess of net long-term capital gain over the
               net short-term capital loss for the taxable year;
               C.   All amounts received during the taxable year as an annuity under an
               annuity, endowment or life insurance contract or under any other contract or
INCOME:        agreement;
               D.   All amounts received as income from tax exempt obligations of Federal,
               State or local governments or governmental agencies and any other tax exempt
               income under the U. S. Internal Revenue Code;
               E.   All benefits paid under the Federal Social Security Act during the taxable
               year;
               F.   All benefits paid under the Railroad Retirement Act during the taxable
               year;
               G.   All public assistance payments received from any governmental agency
               during the taxable year; and
               H.   All unemployment compensation benefits during the taxable year.
PROTECTED      As this term is defined and interpreted in the Village's Historic Preservation
FEATURE:       Regulations (Title 9, Chapter 14).
QUALIFIED      Ad valorem real estate property taxes levied against a property by the Village
PROPERTY       of Lake Bluff and actually paid by the Applicant as of the time of their
TAXES:         application, but excluding: the Lake Bluff Library property tax levy; special
               assessments and liens; interest; and water, sewer, and any other user charges.
               The principal dwelling place in the Village occupied by a senior citizen or a
RESIDENCE:     senior citizen's household, and includes single-family homes and personally
               owned apartment, townhouse and condominium units, but not apartment, townhouse
               and condominium buildings.
               Any individual who:
               A.   Is the owner of and residing in a single family residence or individual
               apartment, condominium, or townhome unit in the Village upon which they are
               legally obligated to pay real estate property taxes;
ELIGIBLE       B.   Has resided in and paid real estate property taxes for previous five
SENIOR         years;
CITIZEN:       C.   Is of the age of 65 years or older; and
               D.   Whose Household Income does not exceed an amount equal to $45,378 in
               calendar year 2021, adjusted annually based on the Consumer Price Index-Urban
               ("CPI-U") factor used in the Property Tax Limitation Act applicable to the
               associated property tax year. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
 
1-8L-2: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
A.   Responsible Officer. The Village Administrator or their designee is
authorized and directed to administer the grant programs provided by this
Article L.
B.   Village Board Authority. The payment of any grant pursuant to this Article
L is at the discretion of the Village Board of Trustees and is subject both to
annual appropriation and to the Village Board's review and approval or denial
of any warrant for any individual grant payment.
C.   Decision Upon Application. Upon receipt of a timely filed application and
all accompanying documentation as may be required, the Village Administrator or
their designee shall, as soon as practical thereafter, determine whether the
applicant is eligible for a grant and has submitted all necessary application
materials. If the Village Administrator determines that an application is
complete and satisfies the applicable requirements, the Village Administrator
shall submit their recommendation that the grant be paid to the Village
President and Board of Trustees for final approval and payment.
D.   Appeals. If the Village Administrator determines that an Applicant is not
so entitled to receive a grant hereunder, they shall notify the Applicant in
writing and the Applicant shall have 10 days after such notice is sent to
appeal such determination to the Village President and Board of Trustees. Such
appeal shall be deemed properly made by filing a written statement with the
Village Clerk within said 10 day period, which statement shall include a
statement of the reasons upon which the appeal is based including a statement
of any errors alleged to have been made by the Village Administrator. As soon
as practicable after such appeal is filed, the Village President and Board of
Trustees shall consider the appeal and make a final determination based upon
the written documents submitted by the Village Administrator and the Applicant.
There shall be no oral presentation of such appeal except as may be permitted
by the Village President and Board of Trustees. If an oral presentation is
permitted, both the Village Administrator and the Applicant will be entitled to
participate therein.
E.   No Further Appeals. The decision of the Village President and the Board of
Trustees concerning the award or denial of a grant or the appeal of the Village
Administrator's decision shall be final, and there shall be no recourse in
either a court of law or otherwise. The decision of the Village President and
Board of Trustees shall be nonreviewable, and no Applicant shall be entitled to
a grant under this Article if the Applicant or the Applicant's spouse files a
lawsuit to obtain a grant hereunder, or to claim any other violation of this
Article L, it being specifically the intent of the Village President and Board
of Trustees that this Article L would not have been adopted if such prohibition
against review of the decision of the Village President and Board of Trustees
in a court of law is unconstitutional or void, such prohibition being non-
severable.
F.   Recovery of False Claims; Interest. The Village may recover from any
claimant any amount paid under this Section on account of an erroneous, false
or fraudulent claim, together with interest thereon at 10 percent. (Ord. 2022-
38, 12-12-2022)
1-8L-3: SENIOR CITIZEN PROPERTY TAX GRANTS:
A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Senior Citizen Property Tax Grant program is
to provide assistance for eligible residents to stay in their homes who may
consider moving from the Village due to the burden of rising property taxes.
B.   Generally. Any Eligible Senior Citizen may apply for an annual grant equal
to 100 percent of the amount of Qualified Property Taxes paid by the Applicant
concerning their Residence, up to a maximum annual grant of $500. Only one
grant shall be provided for a single property and to a single Household.
C.   Application Materials. In order to receive a grant, an eligible person
must file an application with the Village Administrator or their designee no
later than October 15th of the year after the year of the applicable real
estate property tax levy (e.g. October 15, 2022 for a grant to apply against
the 2021 real estate property tax levy). The application shall be in a form and
number determined by the Village Administrator or their designee and shall, at
a minimum, including the following:
1.   A copy of the Applicant's real estate property tax bill for the subject
tax year.
2.   A copy of the Applicant's Federal personal income tax return for the same
year as the property tax. If the Applicant and their spouse file separately,
both returns shall accompany the application.
3.   Such other documents and information as may be requested by the Village
Administrator or their designee to prove eligibility for the grant, including,
without limitation, a personal affidavit regarding income received by the
Applicant and his or her spouse which is not reported on said Personal Income
Tax return.
4.   A sworn affidavit that all information provided on the application is
complete and truthful.
D.   Personal Eligibility Only. Grant eligibility shall be personal to the
Applicant and shall not survive the Applicant's death, but an application may
be filed on behalf of the Applicant, the Applicant's legal guardian or
custodian or attorney-in-fact; provided, however, if an Applicant dies after
having filed a timely claim, and said Applicant is survived by his or her
spouse, then the grant shall be paid to such spouse. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
1-8L-4: HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROPERTY TAX GRANTS:
A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Historic Preservation Property Tax Grant
program is to:
1.   Provide an incentive for residential property owners to apply for and
receive Protected status under the Village's Historic Preservation Regulations
and thereby to promote the preservation of the Village's valuable historical,
cultural, and architectural resources.
2.   Provide the owners of residential Protected Features with additional
financial resources that will be available for maintenance and rehabilitation,
as these owners will incur special additional cost burdens and will have
limited resources to apply as owner-occupants when compared to owners who
derive income from their property.
B.   Generally.
1.   The current owner of a Protected Feature may apply for a grant concerning
Qualified Property Taxes paid for the previous assessment year for the property
where a Protected Feature is located, regardless of when the owner of the
property came into possession of the property relative to either the landmark
designation or the payment of real property taxes.
2.   The Applicant must, at the time of application, reside primarily at the
property that is the subject of the application.
3.   No grant shall be paid unless the Protected Feature giving rise to
eligibility for the grant: (i) has not been demolished; (ii) is not the subject
of any Authorization that would allow a demolition permit to be obtained; and
(iii) is not the subject of an application for any review or permit that would
allow demolition, in whole or in part, or result in the Feature losing
Protected status. However, a partial natural demolition or a partial demolition
approved by an affirmative act of the Historic Preservation Commission does not
affect eligibility for the grant.
4.   If any Protected Feature giving rise to eligibility is the subject of a
current violation of the Village's Property Maintenance Code (Title 9, Chapter
4), the Village Administrator may condition payment of the grant, in whole or
in part, upon remedying the violation.
C.   Application Materials. In order to receive a grant, an eligible person
must file an application with the Village Administrator or their designee no
later than October 15th of the year after the year of the applicable real
estate property tax levy (e.g. October 15, 2022 for a grant to apply against
the 2021 real estate property tax levy). The application shall be in a form and
number determined by the Village Administrator or their designee and shall, at
a minimum, including a copy of the Applicant's real estate property tax bill
for the subject tax year.
D.   Eligibility for New Designations. For any property that is the location of
a Protected Feature designated on or after December 12, 2022, the owner is
eligible to apply annually for a grant equal to the 50 percent of the amount of
Qualified Property Taxes up to a maximum of $2,000. The owner may apply
annually for a period of eight years starting as of July 1 following the date
of designation. Eligibility may not be deferred and only a maximum of eight
grants may be made concerning a single property. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE NAME USAGE; CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Improper Use Of Village Name
1-9-2: Corporate Boundaries
1-9-3: Territory Under Village Jurisdiction
1-9-1: IMPROPER USE OF VILLAGE NAME:
A.   Use Restricted: The use of the name, "Lake Bluff", Illinois, and its zip
code, as assigned by the United States post office or other agency authorized
to designate the same, shall be restricted solely to all dwellings, businesses,
buildings and structures having an actual location within the corporate
boundaries of the village, or which are located in unincorporated areas of the
county within a radius of one mile of the village, or to addresses with a post
office box in the United States post office at Lake Bluff, Illinois, who do not
designate an additional street address for which use of the name "Lake Bluff",
Illinois, is otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
B.   Owner, Occupant Or Tenant; Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any owner,
occupant, tenant or otherwise of any building or structure of any nature or
description which is located within the corporate boundaries of any other city
or village other than the village of Lake Bluff, to utilize a mailing address
showing a street number which is in the corporate limits of any other city or
village followed by the location name of "Lake Bluff", Illinois. (Ord. 85-2, 2-
25-1985)
C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 85-2,
2-25-1985; amd. 2009 Code)
D.   Additional Remedy: The imposition of any fine herein shall not restrict or
prohibit the village from seeking any other additional remedy as provided by
law. (Ord. 85-2, 2-25-1985)
1-9-2: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES:
The corporate boundaries shall be as set by ordinance or resolution of the
village president and board of trustees from time to time. The legal
description of such boundaries shall be and remain on file in the office of the
village clerk. (2009 Code)
1-9-3: TERRITORY UNDER VILLAGE JURISDICTION:
All the territory embraced in the corporate limits, and so much of the water
and bed of Lake Michigan as lie within three (3) miles of the west shore
thereof, are hereby declared to be subject to the jurisdiction and ordinances
of the village. (1988 Code § 1-7-2)
CHAPTER 10
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Rules And Regulations
1-10-2: Fees
1-10-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The village administrator shall be authorized and directed to promulgate rules
and regulations for the implementation of the Illinois freedom of information
act 1 . All requests made pursuant to the Illinois freedom of information act
shall be in accordance with such rules and regulations. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-10-2: FEES:
A.   Fees Established: Unless fees are waived or reduced pursuant to subsection
C of this section, each person requesting information pursuant to the Illinois
freedom of information act shall pay the following fees for copying,
certification, and mailing of public records:
1.   Copies (81/2 x 11), as set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "administrative fees".
2.   Copies (oversize), as set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "administrative fees".
3.   Certification, as set out in section
1-12-3 of this title, under the category "administrative fees".
4.   Mailing, the current postage rate as determined by the United States post
office.
B.   Method And Time Of Payment: Payment of all required fees must be made in
cash, by cashier's or certified check, or by money order prior to the
examination, copying, or certification of any public record.
C.   Waiver Of Fees:
1.   The fees provided in subsection A of this section may be waived or reduced
by the village administrator if the person requesting information pursuant to
the Illinois freedom of information act states the specific purpose of the
request on the request form filed at the time of the request and establishes to
the reasonable satisfaction of the village administrator that a fee waiver or
reduction would be in the public need. Any request for fee waiver or reduction
must be indicated on the request form filed at the time of the request.
2.   A fee waiver or reduction shall be considered to be in the public interest
only if the principal purpose of the request is to disseminate information
regarding the public health, safety, and welfare or the legal rights of the
general public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or commercial
benefit to the person requesting information pursuant to the Illinois freedom
of information act. The village administrator may consider the number of
requested public records and the cost and necessity of copying the records in
setting the fee waiver or reduction amount. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 11
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Ethics Officer
1-11-3: Ethics Commission
1-11-4: Gifts
1-11-5: Prohibited Political Activities
1-11-6: Complaint Procedure
1-11-7: Enforcement
1-11-8: Penalty
1-11-9: Effect Of Ethics Commission Decisions
1-11-10: Exemption From Open Meetings Law
1-11-11: Interpretation
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any "executive action", "legislative action", or
"administrative action", as those terms are defined in section 2 of the
lobbyist registration act 1 ; b) relating to "collective bargaining", as
defined in section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 ; or c) that
are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: Any person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at either a general primary election or general election.
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to an employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment but, for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off, or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer or employee is
on the premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the
officer or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of
location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Any authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of her or his
employment.
EMPLOYEE: Each full time, part time, and contractual employee of the village.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
INTEROFFICE GIFT: Any gift given to an officer or employee of the village from
a member or employee of the Illinois general assembly; or from the governor,
the lieutenant governor, the attorney general, the secretary of state, the
controller, the treasurer or the auditor general of the state of Illinois; or
from a member, officer, appointee, or employee of any state agency as defined
in the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
430/1-1 et seq., or of any federal agency, or of any unit of local government
or school district.
INTRAOFFICE GIFT: Any gift given to an officer or employee of the village from
another officer or employee of the village.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit towards pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the village.
OFFICER: All appointed and elected officials of the village, regardless of
whether the official is compensated.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-3, but only
with regard to those activities that require filing with the state board of
elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase of,
selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding any thing of value intended as a campaign contribution.
D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in an
election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign for
elective office, or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes, or for or against any referendum question.
F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or filing
any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires in connection
with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political organization
for political purposes.
K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign literature,
campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any candidate for
elective office or for or against any referendum question.
L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person who, or entity that:
A.   Is seeking official action by the village or by an officer or employee of
the village; or
B.   Does business or seeks to do business with the village or with an officer
or employee of the village; or
C.   Conducts activities regulated by the village or by an officer or employee
of the village; or
D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the village or an officer or employee
of the village; or
E.   Is registered or required to be registered with the secretary of state
under the lobbyist registration act, 25 Illinois Compiled Statutes 170/1 et
seq.; except, that an entity does not become a "prohibited source" merely
because a registered lobbyist is one of its members or serves on its board of
directors.
RELATIVE: Those people related to the officer or employee as father, mother,
son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first
cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather, grandmother, grandson,
granddaughter, father- in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in- law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister, and including the
father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the officer's or employee's
spouse and the officer's or employee's fiance or fiancee. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-
2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 25 ILCS 170/2.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
1-11-2: ETHICS OFFICER:
The village administrator shall be designated the ethics officer for the
village. The ethics officer shall have the following duties, responsibilities,
powers, and authority:
A.   To review statements of economic interest of officers and employees before
they are filed with the appropriate office;
B.   To provide guidance to officers and employees in the interpretation and
implementation of this chapter and the requirements of section 5-15 and article
10 of the state officials and employees ethics act;
C.   To provide guidance to officers and employees in completing statements of
economic interest before they are filed with the appropriate office; and
D.   To provide guidance to officers and employees in the interpretation and
implementation of other applicable statutes, ordinances, rules, or regulations
of the village, the state of Illinois, or the federal government dealing with
ethics, conflicts of interest, interest in contracts, jobs, work, or materials,
or the profits thereof, or services to be performed for or by the village.
(Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-2004)
1-11-3: ETHICS COMMISSION:
A.   Established; Members; Compensation: There is hereby established in the
village an ethics commission, consisting of the village board of trustees.
Commission members shall be nonsalaried; except, that they may be reimbursed
for their reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
B.   Contract For Services: The ethics commission may contract for services
that cannot be satisfactorily performed by the staff.
C.   Powers And Authority; Restrictions:
1.   The ethics commission shall have the following powers and authority:
a.   To promulgate such procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers as deemed necessary or appropriate.
b.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to investigate,
conduct research, conduct closed hearings and deliberations, issue findings,
decisions, and recommendations, and impose a fine when warranted.
c.   To act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation
of this chapter, and not upon its own prerogative.
d.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its investigations
and to require additional information and documents from persons who may have
violated this chapter as the ethics commission deems appropriate.
e.   When necessary, to subpoena witnesses and compel the production of books
and papers pertinent to an investigation authorized by this chapter.
f.   When necessary, to request that the county state's attorney provide legal
advice without charge to the ethics commission.
g.   To prepare and publish such manuals and guides as the ethics commission
deems appropriate explaining the duties of individuals covered by this chapter.
h.   To prepare such public information materials as the ethics commission
deems appropriate to facilitate compliance, implementation, and enforcement of
this chapter.
i.   To prepare an annual statistical report for each year consisting of: 1)
the number of complaints filed; 2) the number of complaints deemed to
sufficiently allege a violation of this chapter; 3) the recommendation, fine,
or decision issued for each complaint; 4) the number of complaints resolved;
and 5) the status of pending complaints.
j.   To delegate to a subcommittee of the ethics commission its authority to
conduct investigations pursuant to this subsection C1j and require such
subcommittee to provide a report of the subcommittee's investigatory findings
to the full ethics commission for final action.
2.   In the event that a member of the ethics commission is the subject of a
claimed violation of this chapter, such commissioner shall immediately recuse
himself or herself from the investigation of such claimed violation and shall
take no part in the final action of the ethics commission regarding such
claimed violation. The powers and authority of the ethics commission are
limited to matters clearly within the purview of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-18,
5-24-2004)
1-11-4: GIFTS:
A.   Gifts Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this
section, no officer or employee, spouse of an officer or employee, or immediate
family member living with an officer or employee, shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in violation of any federal or
state statute, rule, or regulation. No prohibited source shall intentionally
offer or make a gift that violates this subsection.
B.   Exceptions: The restrictions set forth in subsection A of this section
shall not apply to the following:
1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
2.   Anything for which the officer or employee pays the market value or
anything not used and promptly disposed of as provided in subsection C of this
section.
3.   A "contribution", as defined in article 9 of the Illinois election code,
10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-1 et seq., that is lawfully made under that
code or under the state officials and employees ethics act, or activities
associated with a fundraising event in support of a political organization or
candidate.
4.   A gift from a relative of an officer or employee.
5.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal friendship
unless the officer or employee has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the officer or employee and not because of the personal
friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal
friendship, the officer or employee shall consider the circumstances under
which the gift was offered, such as:
a.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving the gift and
the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between
those individuals;
b.   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the officer or employee, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
c.   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the officer or employee, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees.
6.   Intraoffice and interoffice gifts.
7.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits resulting
from the outside business or employment activities (or outside activities that
are not connected to the duties of the officer or employee as an office holder
or employee) of the officer or employee, or the spouse of the officer or
employee, if the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the
official position or employment of the officer or employee and are customarily
provided to others in similar circumstances.
8.   Educational materials and missions.
9.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
10.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss village business.
11.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or purchased ready to eat and delivered by any means.
12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar year
having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee that is a recipient of a gift
that is given in violation of this chapter may, at his or her discretion,
return the item to the donor or give the item or an amount equal to its value
to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under section 501
(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-2004)
1-11-5: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time. No officer or employee shall
intentionally use any property or resources of the village in connection with
any prohibited political activity.
B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any other
officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as part of
that employee's duties; 2) as a condition of employment; or 3) during any
compensated time off.
C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in any
prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded any additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form
of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for the officer's or employee's participation
in any prohibited political activity.
D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise
permissible for an officer or employee to engage in as a part of his or her
official or employment duties or activities that are undertaken by an officer
or employee on a voluntary basis as permitted by law.
E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-
2004)
1-11-6: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
A.   Filing Complaint: Complaints alleging the violation of this chapter shall
be filed with the ethics commission. Any complaint received by, or incident
reported to, an employee alleging the violation of this chapter shall be
forwarded to the ethics commission. No such complaint shall be properly filed
unless and until it is filed with the ethics commission.
B.   Notice Of Complaint: Within three (3) business days after the filing of an
ethics complaint, the ethics commission shall send, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a notice to the respondent that a complaint has been filed
against him or her, along with a copy of the complaint. The ethics commission
shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a confirmation of the
receipt of the complaint to the complainant within three (3) business days
after the submittal to the ethics commission. The notices to the respondent and
the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time, and place of the
meeting on the sufficiency of the complaint and probable cause, which meeting
shall be held within fourteen (14) business days after receiving the complaint.
C.   Review Of Complaint; Decision On Validity: Upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the session, the ethics commission shall meet in a
closed session to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint
is deemed to sufficiently allege a violation of this chapter, to determine if
there is probable cause based on evidence presented by the complainant, to
proceed. The ethics commission shall issue notice to the complainant and the
respondent of the ethics commission's ruling on the sufficiency of the
complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause. If the complaint is deemed to
sufficiently allege a violation of this chapter and there is a determination of
probable cause, then the ethics commission's notice to the parties shall
include a hearing date scheduled within four (4) weeks after the issuance of
the ethics commission's ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint. If the
complaint is deemed not to sufficiently allege a violation or if there is no
determination of probable cause, then the ethics commission shall send by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the
decision to dismiss the complaint and that notice shall be made public.
D.   Closed Meeting: On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the hearing, the ethics commission shall conduct a
closed meeting on the complaint and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence.
E.   Decisions And Recommendation: Within two (2) weeks after the conclusion of
the hearing on the complaint, the ethics commission shall: 1) dismiss the
complaint; or 2) issue a preliminary recommendation to the alleged violator and
to the violator's ultimate jurisdictional authority or impose a fine upon the
violator, or both. The particular findings in the instant case, the preliminary
recommendation, and any fine shall be made public.
F.   Public Hearing:
1.   Within seven (7) business days after the issuance of the preliminary
recommendation or imposition of a fine, or both, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint. The filing of the demand
shall stay the enforcement of the preliminary recommendation or fine.
2.   Within two (2) weeks after receiving the demand, the ethics commission
shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint after at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence.
3.   Within five (5) business days after such public hearing, the ethics
commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator
and to the violator's ultimate jurisdictional authority or impose a fine upon
the violator, or both.
G.   Complaints Filed Near Election Dates: If a complaint is filed during the
sixty (60) days preceding the date of any election at which the respondent is a
candidate, the ethics commission shall render its decision as required under
subsection E of this section within seven (7) days after the complaint is
filed, and during the seven (7) days preceding that election, the ethics
commission shall tender such decision before the date of that election, if
possible.
H.   Frivolous, False Complaints: The ethics commission may levy a fine of up
to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) against any person who knowingly files
a frivolous complaint alleging a violation of this chapter.
I.   Time Limit For Filing Complaint: A complaint alleging the violation of
this chapter must be filed within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord.
2004-18, 5-24-2004)
1-11-7: ENFORCEMENT:
A.   The ethics commission may recommend to a person's ultimate jurisdictional
authority disciplinary action against the person it determines to be in
violation of this chapter. The recommendation may prescribe the following
courses of action:
1.   A reprimand.
2.   An order to cease and desist the offensive action.
3.   A return or refund of money or other items, or an amount of restitution
for services received in violation of this chapter.
4.   Dismissal, removal from office, or expulsion.
5.   Donation to a charity of an amount equal to the gift.
B.   The ethics commission may impose a fine of up to seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) per violation, which fine, upon collection, shall be
deposited into the general fund of the village.
C.   The village, through the ultimate jurisdictional authority of an officer
or employee, may take disciplinary action against any such officer or employee:
1) who the ethics commission finds is in violation of this chapter; 2) who is
the subject of a recommendation by the ethics commission; or 3) described by
both items 1 and 2 of this subsection.
D.   The village may take disciplinary action as recommended by the ethics
commission, if any, or as it deems appropriate, to the extent it has
constitutional and statutory authority to take that action.
E.   The village shall make its action, or determination to take no action,
available to the public.
F.   If after a hearing, the ethics commission finds no violation of this
chapter, the ethics commission shall dismiss the complaint. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-
24-2004)
1-11-8: PENALTY:
An individual who knowingly violates this chapter is guilty of a business
offense and subject to a maximum fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
1-11-9: EFFECT OF ETHICS COMMISSION DECISIONS:
The ethics commission's decision to dismiss a complaint or its recommendation
is not a final administrative decision; however, its imposition of a fine is a
final administrative decision subject to judicial review under the
administrative review law of the Illinois code of civil procedure, 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-2004)
1-11-10: EXEMPTION FROM OPEN MEETINGS LAW:
The proceedings conducted and documents generated under this chapter are exempt
from the provisions of the Illinois open meetings act 1  and the Illinois
freedom of information act 2 , except as expressly provided. (Ord. 2004-18, 5-
24-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-11-11: INTERPRETATION:
A.   State Regulations: It is the intent of the village that the provisions of
this chapter shall be substantially in accordance with the requirements of
section 5-15 and article 10 of the state officials and employees ethics act. To
the extent that section 5-15 or article 10 of the state officials and employees
ethics act may, from time to time, be more restrictive than the requirements of
this chapter, the provisions of section 5-15 and article 10 of the state
officials and employees act shall apply and control.
B.   Personnel Rules: This chapter does not repeal or otherwise modify the
village employee handbook or other relevant personnel rules ("existing
regulations"). To the extent that the existing regulations are less restrictive
than section 5-15 or article 10 of the state officials and employees ethics act
and this chapter, the provisions of section 5-15 and article 10 of the state
officials and employees ethics act and this chapter shall apply and control.
(Ord. 2004-18, 5-24-2004)
CHAPTER 12
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose
1-12-2: Application Of Provisions
1-12-3: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Rates
1-12-4: Payment Of Fees, Charges And Rates
1-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to consolidate all Village fees and charges into
one (1) chapter of this Code for ease of reference and administrative purposes.
(Ord. 2009-11, 3-23-2009)
1-12-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
A.   Each fee, charge, rate, or regulatory measure set forth in and imposed by
this chapter shall apply to the provisions of the corresponding section of this
Code. To the extent any fee, charge, rate, or regulatory measure imposed under
this chapter is inconsistent with any provision contained elsewhere in this
Code, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any petition or other
request for which a completed application has not been filed with the Village
prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2009-11, 3-23-2009)
1-12-3: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND RATES:
ADMINISTRATIVE FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                Amount                     Municipal Code Provision
Budget                     $ 25.00
Building Code              10.00                      Title 9, chapters 1
                                                      through 9
Comprehensive Plan         25.00
Documents and records:                                1-10-2
Deposit for microfilm      150.00 per week
records
For all documents or                                  Ord. 2010-1;
records copied in response                            5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
to an FOIA request:
8.5" x 11" or 8.5" x 14"
(black and white), first   No charge
50 pages
8.5" x 11" or 8.5" x 14"
(black and white), each    $0.15 per side
page after first 50 pages
11" x 17" (black and       0.50 per page
white)
8.5" x 11", 8.5" x 14", or Costs incurred
11" x 17" (color)
Certification of           $1.00 per document (plus
documents/records          copying cost)
Electronic records:
Nonvoluminous requests     Cost incurred
                           $20.00 for up to 80
                           megabytes of data,
Voluminous requests        $40.00 for more than 80
(PDF format)               but not more than 160
                           megabytes of data,
                           $100.00 for more than 160
                           megabytes of data
                           $20.00 for up to 2
                           megabytes of data,
Voluminous requests        $40.00 for more than 2 but
(non-PDF format)           not more than 4 megabytes
                           of data,
                           $100.00 for more than 4
                           megabytes of data
Use of an outside vendor
to produce requested       Cost incurred
documents
Fine for FOIA violations   $750.00 for each violation
For records requested by a
commercial requestor, time
in excess of 8 hours spent $10.00/hour
to search for, examine for
redactions, or retrieve
requested records
Land use maps              5.00
Sign regulations           10.00                      Title 10, chapter 10
Subdivision title          25.00                      Title 11
Tree regulations           10.00                      Title 10, chapter 11
Zoning title               25.00                      Title 10
 
ALARM FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                        Amount          Municipal Code Provision
Annual registration:                               5-6-8
Within the Village limits          $ 25.00
Outside the Village limits         Set by contract
Directly monitored alarm fees:                     5-6-8
Initial connection fee             125.00
Onetime relay deposit fee          150.00
Single-family residence within the 50.00
Village limits
Other property within the Village  75.00
limits
All property outside the Village   Set by contract
limits
False fire/burglar alarm fees:                     5-6-10A
1 to 4 false alarms                No charge
5th false alarm                    $ 50.00
6th, 7th , 8th false alarm         100.00
9th false alarm                    150.00
10th false alarm or more           250.00
 
CONSTRUCTION/BUILDING FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
                                                                                 Municipal
Description                                                         Amount       Code
                                                                                 Provision
                                                                    $30.00 per
Construction permit1, unless otherwise listed                       $1,000.00 of Title 9,
                                                                    construction chapter 1
                                                                    cost
                                                                    100%
                                                                    reduction of
                                                                    the portion
                                                                    of the
Building permit fee reduction for installation of electric vehicle  building
chargers                                                            permit fee
                                                                    attributable
                                                                    to the
                                                                    vehicle
                                                                    charger
                                                                    installation
                                                                    Rebate of
Building permit fee rebate for qualifying sustainable building      25% of total 9-1-27
projects                                                            building
                                                                    permit fee
                                                                    $100.00 per
                                                                    month for
                                                                    interior
                                                                    only
                                                                    building
Building permit, restoration (renewal for expired permit)           activity,    9-1-9A
                                                                    $200.00 per
                                                                    month for
                                                                    all other
                                                                    building/
                                                                    site
                                                                    activity
                                                                    $25.00
                                                                    application
                                                                    fee, plus    Title 9,
Plumbing permit                                                     $10.00 per   chapter 1
                                                                    $1,000.00 of
                                                                    construction
                                                                    cost
                                                                    $25.00
                                                                    application
                                                                    fee, plus    Title 9,
Electric permit                                                     $10.00 per   chapter 2
                                                                    $1,000.00 of
                                                                    construction
                                                                    cost
                                                                    $25.00
                                                                    application
                                                                    fee, plus    Title 9,
Heating and air conditioning                                        $10.00 per   chapter 1
                                                                    $1,000.00 of
                                                                    construction
                                                                    cost
                                                                    $50.00
                                                                    application
                                                                    fee, plus    Title 9,
Replacement siding, exterior doors, and windows permit              $10.00 per   chapter 2
                                                                    $1,000.00 of
                                                                    construction
                                                                    cost
                                                                    Waiver of
                                                                    100% of
Building permit fee waiver for properties on which a Protected or   total        9-14-10
Certified Feature is located pursuant to the Village's Historic     building     (K)
Preservation Regulations2                                           permit fee
                                                                    (full
                                                                    waiver)
Elevator plan review and inspection                                 Village cost Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 2
Residential fire sprinkler plan review and inspection               $150.00      Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Fence installation:                                                              10-9-1
New fence                                                           50.00
Replacement fence                                                   25.00
                                                                    $25.00
                                                                    application
                                                                    fee, plus
New or replacement patio, sidewalk, driveway, private roadway, and  $10.00 per   7-1-12E1,
parking lot permit                                                  $1,000.00 of E2
                                                                    construction
                                                                    cost, $50.00
                                                                    minimum
Demolition Tax for principal residential structures                 $10,000.00   1-8I-2
Demolition Tax where the principal residential structure is a                    1-8I-2,
Protected Feature pursuant to the Village’s Historic Preservation 12,500.00    9-14-10
Regulations                                                                      (K)
Demolition Tax where the principal residential structure is a                    1-8I-2,
Certified Feature pursuant to the Village’s Historic Preservation 15,000.00    9-14-10
Regulations                                                                      (K)
                                                                    $25.00
                                                                    application
Demolition permit:                                                  fee, plus    9-1-18
                                                                    unit fees as
                                                                    provided
                                                                    below
Principal structures:
Up to and including 500 square feet3                                $1.00 per
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    $1.00 per
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    for the
                                                                    first 500
                                                                    square feet,
501 square feet through 2,500 square feet                           plus $2.00
                                                                    for each
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    from 501
                                                                    through
                                                                    2,500
                                                                    $1.00 per
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    for the
                                                                    first 500
                                                                    square feet,
                                                                    plus $2.00
                                                                    for each
2,501 square feet and above                                         square foot
                                                                    from 501
                                                                    through
                                                                    2,500, plus
                                                                    $0.50 for
                                                                    each square
                                                                    foot from
                                                                    2,501 and
                                                                    above
Accessory structures:                                                            9-1-18
150 square feet through 500 square feet                             $0.50 per
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    $0.50 per
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    from 150
                                                                    through 500,
501 square feet through 1,000 square feet                           plus $1.00
                                                                    for each
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    from 501
                                                                    through
                                                                    1,000
                                                                    $0.50 per
                                                                    square foot
                                                                    from 150 to
                                                                    500, plus
                                                                    $1.00 for
                                                                    each square
1,001 square feet and above                                         foot from
                                                                    501 through
                                                                    1,000, plus
                                                                    $0.25 for
                                                                    each square
                                                                    foot from
                                                                    1,001 and
                                                                    above
                                                                    $25.00
                                                                    application
                                                                    fee, plus
Roofing permit                                                      $10.00 per   Title 9,
                                                                    $1,000.00 of chapter 2
                                                                    construction
                                                                    cost, $50.00
                                                                    minimum fee
Reinspections                                                       $150.00      Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Occupancy certificate                                               250.00       10-2-3B3
Copy of original certificate                                        1.00         10-2-3B4
Building Department plan review (only applies when plans are        200.00       Title 9,
reviewed and no permit is issued)                                                chapter 2
                                                                    $200.00 for
                                                                    plans that
                                                                    are
                                                                    $20,000.00
                                                                    or more in
                                                                    construction Title 9,
Plan review deposit                                                 value and    chapter 2
                                                                    $100.00 for
                                                                    plans under
                                                                    $20,000.00
                                                                    in
                                                                    construction
                                                                    value
Fire Department plan review (multi-family and commercial only)      $ 50.00      Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 2
Septic system permit                                                2,500.00     8-2-1B2
                                                                                 7-1-8C,
Street opening permit                                               550.00       9-3-3
                                                                                 (R106.2)
Street tunneling permit                                             100.00       7-1-8C
Sidewalk opening permit                                             110.00       7-1-8C
                                                                    $650.00 for
                                                                    application
                                                                    for single
                                                                    SWF
                                                                    $350.00 for
                                                                    each SWF in
                                                                    application
                                                                    for multiple
                                                                    SWFs
                                                                    $1,000.00
                                                                    for each SWF
                                                                    that
                                                                    includes new
                                                                    utility pole
                                                                    $200.00
Small wireless facilities (SWFs)                                    annual fee
                                                                    for each SWF
                                                                    on Village
                                                                    utility pole
                                                                    within
                                                                    right-of-way
                                                                    $3,600.00
                                                                    for
                                                                    application
                                                                    for SWF on
                                                                    Village
                                                                    utility pole
                                                                    not located
                                                                    within
                                                                    right-of-
                                                                    way
Swimming pool installation permit                                   $330.00      Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Aboveground pool/spa                                                330.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Inground pool/spa (no structures or enclosures)                     350.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
                                                                    $30.00 for
                                                                    each
                                                                    $1,000.00 of Title 9,
Pools and spas (which include structures)                           construction chapter 1
                                                                    value
                                                                    (minimum of
                                                                    $400.00)
Moving license                                                      $5,000.00    9-1-16
Lawn irrigation system installation permit                          330.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Water tap permit                                                    25.00        8-1A-2A2
Water taps                                                          100.00       8-1A-2A2
                                                                    Costs
Water meter and accessories                                         incurred,    8-1A-3
                                                                    plus 10%
Satellite/antenna dish review                                       $25.00
Special inspections (i.e., Veterans' Affairs, FHA)                  $125.00 per  Title 9,
                                                                    inspection   chapter 1
                                                                    $25.00 per
                                                                    permit and
                                                                    $10.00 per
                                                                    $1,000.00 of
Security systems                                                    construction Title 9,
                                                                    value for an chapter 1
                                                                    electrical
                                                                    permit
                                                                    (minimum of
                                                                    $50.00)
                                                                    $0.005 per
New construction and/or large scale renovation 15,000 or more       square foot  Title 9,
square feet, life safety review                                     (minimum of  chapter 1
                                                                    $250.00)
Small scale tenant finish or renovation less than 15,000 square     $150.00      Title 9,
feet, life safety review                                                         chapter 1
                                                                    $100.00 plus
                                                                    $3.00 per
Automatic fire extinguishing systems, NFPA 13 or 13R                sprinkler    Title 9,
                                                                    head         chapter 1
                                                                    (minimum of
                                                                    $200.00)
Automatic fire extinguishing systems, combination preaction/clean   $450.00      Title 9,
agent                                                                            chapter 1
Automatic fire extinguishing systems, other fire suppression        250.00       Title 9,
systems (wet chemical, etc.)                                                     chapter 1
Standpipe systems                                                   200.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Fire pumps and related equipment                                    200.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Compressed gases, system installations                              100.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Flammable and combustible liquids tank installation and/or process  100.00       Title 9,
installation                                                                     chapter 1
Hazardous materials uses                                            100.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
LP gas installations                                                100.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Private fire hydrants review                                        100.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
                                                                    $5.00 per
Fire alarm systems and related equipment                            device       Title 9,
                                                                    (minimum of  chapter 1
                                                                    $100.00)
Fire alarm panel replacement                                        $250.00      Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Small scale tenant fire alarm renovation                            100.00       Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
Tents and air supported structures                                  25.00        Title 9,
                                                                                 chapter 1
 
DEVELOPMENT FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                Amount                      Municipal Code Provision
                           $500.00 per acre or
Preannexation, per filing  fraction thereof (plus
                           additional costs incurred
                           by the Village)4
                           $1,000.00 per acre or
Annexation of territory    fraction thereof (plus
                           additional costs incurred
                           by the Village)5
Appeals to administrative
decisions/rebuttals to     $100.00
board and commission
recommendations
Architectural Board of
Review:
Minor improvements to      $100.00, plus additional
existing sites/structures  costs incurred              9-13-5
or concept review
Major improvements, per    $300.00, plus additional
structure or type of       costs incurred              9-13-5
structure
Sign review, per sign      $150.00, plus additional    10-10-17
                           costs incurred
                           $300.00, plus an amount
                           determined by the Village
                           Administrator to reimburse
                           the Village for all
Site plan approval         anticipated out of pocket   10-2-8A
application                expenses incurred in
                           connection with the
                           delivery of notice pursuant
                           to section 10-2-8 of this
                           Code
Special development fees
applicable to property
within the RIO Zoning
District:
RIO Development Plan       $0.00, plus additional      10-2-6,
review                     costs incurred by the       10-16-7
                           Village
Architectural Board of     $0.00, plus additional
Review applications,       costs incurred by the       10-2-6, 10-2-8,
including sign reviews and Village                     10-10-17
site plan reviews
Subdivisions and planned
developments:
Filing fee for preliminary
plat of subdivision        $250.00 per subdivision     11-3-1
application, no Plan
Commission review
Filing fee for preliminary
plat of subdivision        $250.00 per subdivision     11-3-1
application, with Plan
Commission review
Tentative and final plat
of subdivision (prior to   $1,000.00 (plus additional
recording by Village),     costs incurred by the       11-2-6,
including subdivisions     Village)6                   11-3-2
submitted to the Village
Board of Trustees
Application filing fee for $150.00 per acre or         10-5J-4B1
planned development        fraction thereof
                           $2,000.00 (plus additional  Title 10, chapter 5,
Planned development        costs incurred by the       article J
                           Village)6
Tentative and final plat
for planned development    $1,000.00 (plus additional  10-5J-4B1
(prior to recording by the costs incurred by Village)6
Village)
Tree permit application
review (see Permit Fees of                             10-11-6E
this section for tree
permit fees):
1. Development of a vacant $450.00
lot
2. Structure demolitions   525.00
3. Room additions          275.00
4. Driveway installations  150.00
5. Installations (pools,
tennis courts, sport       195.00
courts)
6. Fence and shed          125.00
installations
7. Deck and patio          140.00
installations
8. Irrigation system       125.00
installations
                           $150.00 per each 1 inch
                           caliper of replacement
Tree replacement           trees that are not being
mitigation fee             planted on the subject      10-11-7G2
                           property at the full
                           replacement rate that would
                           otherwise be applicable
Watershed development                                  12-1-1
regulations review7,8:
1. Sediment and erosion
control only:
a. Single-family home/     $ 150.00
development under 5 acres
b. Single-family home/
development under 5 acres  200.00
with floodplain or
wetlands
c. Development 5 acres or  350.00
more
2. Minor development       700.00
without detention
3. Minor development with  1,400.00
detention
4. Major development
(stream bank/shoreline     300.00
stabilization)
5. Major development       1,950.00
(detention, no floodplain)
6. Major development
(grading in floodplain, no 400.00
detention)
7. Major development (with
floodplain under 100 acres 2,700.00
tributary)
8. Major development (with
floodplain 100 to 200      4,350.00
acres tributary)
9. Major development (with
floodplain over 200 acres  5,500.00
tributary)
10. Floodplain/floodway    100.00
accessory structure review
11. Public road
development (detention and 1,550.00
floodplain modeling)
12. Public road
development (with          1,050.00
detention and/or
floodplain impact)
13. Public road            600.00
development (no detention)
14. Wetland,
jurisdictional             350.00
determination
15. Wetland, no impact     300.00
determination
16. Wetland Category I     150.00
permit (single-family)
17. Wetland Category I     900.00
permit (nonsingle-family)
18. Wetland Category II    1,250.00
permit
19. Wetland Category III   1,300.00
permit
20. Wetland Category IV    500.00
permit (less than 1 acre)
21. Wetland Category IV
permit (greater than or    1,000.00
equal to 1 acre)
22. Resubmittals           1/3 of base fee
23. FEMA map revisions     $1,250.00
Zoning Board of Appeals:                               2-5-3F, 10-2-6
Appeal of interpretation
of zoning regulations      150.00
pursuant to State Statutes
Variations:
Requiring only Zoning      $500.00, plus additional
Board of Appeals approval, costs incurred by the
per filing                 Village
Requiring Village Board    $750.00, plus additional
approval, per filing       costs incurred by the
                           Village
Text or map amendments to  $750.00, plus additional
the zoning regulations,    costs incurred by the
per filing                 Village
Special use permit:
                           $750.00, plus additional
Up to 1 acre               costs incurred by the
                           Village
Per acre or fraction       $10.00 per acre
thereof over 1 acre
Developer donation impact
fees: The following
variables shall be used to
determine developer
donations for school,
park, library, and Village
purposes in accordance                                 11-4-4
with the method of
calculation and provisions
outlined in title 11 of
this Code, particularly
title 11, chapter 4 of
this Code:
Lake Bluff Park District   7.3 acres per 1,000
multiplier                 residents
School District 115        50 acres per 1,500 students
multiplier
                           15 acres per 600 K - 5
School District 65         students
multipliers                30 acres per 900 6 - 8
                           students
Municipal (Village)        9.7 acres per 1,000
                           residents
Library (Village)          0.05 acre per 1,000
                           residents
Value of vacant land for   $583,200.00 per acre        11-4-4G
"cash in lieu of" donation
Reduced application fee
for zoning relief          $375.00, plus additional
concerning an accessory    costs incurred by the       10-5-15
dwelling unit that is      Village
accessory to one single-
family residence
 
LICENSE FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
                                                                                     Municipal
Description                                                               Amount     Code
                                                                                     Provision
Accessory Animal Licenses                                                            5-9D-2
New license (non-refundable application fee)                              $100.00
Renewal of license (non- refundable application fee)                      $0.00
Business occupancy certificate fee                                        $ 100.00   3-9-2B
Business license transfer fee                                             10.00      3-1-4B
Contractor's license fee; fees for all contractor licenses that are       100.00     9-2-3
issued on or after November 1 shall be prorated on a semiannual basis                (105.8)
Liquor licenses:
Initial application fee (does not apply to applications for Class L or W
event licenses, or applications for Class AA or AB licenses that receive  250.00     3-2-4B
fee waivers)
Annual license fees; fees for all liquor licenses, except Class L and W
events, that are issued on or after November 1 shall be prorated on a                3-2-9
semiannual basis:
Class A                                                                   2,500.00
Class B                                                                   940.00
Class C                                                                   2,500.00
Class D                                                                   2,500.00
Class L                                                                   30.00 per
                                                                          event
Class P-1                                                                 No charge
Class P-2                                                                 $1,250.00
Class R                                                                   1,250.00
Class S                                                                   1,250.00
Class T                                                                   1,250.00
Class U                                                                   2,750.00
Class V                                                                   2,750.00
Class W annual license                                                    500.00
Class W event license                                                     50.00
Class X                                                                   500.00
Class Y                                                                   1,000.00
Class Z                                                                   275.00
                                                                          $250.00,
                                                                          provided
                                                                          that this
                                                                          charge
                                                                          will be
Class AA                                                                  waived for
                                                                          holders of
                                                                          an
                                                                          existing
                                                                          Village
                                                                          liquor
                                                                          license
                                                                          $250.00,
                                                                          provided
                                                                          that this
                                                                          charge
                                                                          will be
Class AB                                                                  waived for
                                                                          Village
                                                                          businesses
                                                                          holding
                                                                          any State
                                                                          liquor
                                                                          license
Class AC                                                                  $3,250.00
Class AD                                                                  $500.00
Food license, restaurant/food store                                       $100.00    3-7A-2B
                                                                          $100.00
Food and beverage delivery service                                        per        3-7B-1C1
                                                                          vehicle
Milk and milk products sales, delivery and distribution:                             3-7C-2B3
Engaging in business of delivery or distribution of milk                  $50.00 per
                                                                          vehicle
Retail businesses where milk is sold, except where a food dealer's        $ 50.00
license has been issued
Each milk vending machine                                                 25.00
Junk dealer                                                               25.00      3-8-3A
Gasoline station                                                          100.00     3-6-5A
                                                                                     Title 3,
Massage establishments                                                    100.00     chapter
                                                                                     13
Motor vehicle:                                                            40.00      6-2-3
Owner 65 or over                                                          15.00      6-2-3
                                                                          $0.00;
                                                                          eligible
                                                                          vehicles
                                                                          still are
Electric vehicles bearing an Illinois “EL” license plate until May 1, required   6-2-3
2025                                                                      to
                                                                          register
                                                                          with the
                                                                          Village
                                                                          annually
College or graduate student with a vehicle away from home                 50% fee    6-2-3(D)
                                                                          reduction
Trucks                                                                    55.00      6-2-3
Motorcycles, motorized bicycles, motorized tricycles and other motorized  25.00      6-2-3
vehicles
                                                                          50% of
Motor vehicle, truck or motorcycle late fee penalty                       license    6-2-3
                                                                          fee
Vehicle license - transfer to new vehicle, same owner                     No charge  6-2-3
Vehicle license fine                                                      $50.00     6-2-5
Raffle license                                                            25.00      3-14-11
Peddler or solicitor                                                      $100.00    3-3-3
                                                                          per person
Scavenger
   Residential franchise                                               $0.00      3-4-3(A)
   Commercial franchise                                                $0.00      3-4-3((B)
   Exempt service                                                      $750.00    3-4-3((C)
Taxicab service                                                           $ 25.00    3-5-3A
Livery service                                                            250.00     3-5-3B
Fingerprinting fees:
Village resident                                                          Free
Nonvillage resident                                                       $100.00
Short-term rental annual registration fee                                 250.00     10-4-5J
 
PERMIT FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                      Amount                Municipal Code Provision
Commercial filming and
videotaping:
Permit application               $1,000.00             3-10-3A1
Disruptive use of Village        2,000.00 per day      3-10-3F1
property
Nondisruptive use of Village     1,000.00 per day      3-10-3F1
property
Total closure of public street   200.00 per hour       3-10-3F1
right-of-way
Partial closure of public street 100.00 per hour       3-10-3F1
right-of-way
Parking permit:
Mawman Avenue                    125.00 per year       6-4-4(B)(1)
Parking Lot: Daytime
Mawman Avenue Parking Lot:       360.00 per year       6-4-4(B)(2)
Overnight
Train Station Parking Lot:       360.00 per year       6-4-3(B)(1)
Daytime                          3.00 per day
Train Station Parking Lot:       360.00 per year       6-4-3(B)(2)
Overnight                        5.00 per day
Train Station Parking Lot:
Central Business District        150.00 per year       6-4-3(B)(3)
Merchant
Transfer to new vehicle, same    No charge             6-4-5(B)(4)
owner
Parking convenience fee (for                           6-4-3,
daily fee payment by any means   $0.37 per transaction 6-4-4
except at pay kiosk)
Tree permit (see Development
Fees of this section for tree    $50.00                10-11-6E
permit application review fees):
Application                      50.00                 10-11-6E
 
TAXES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                  Amount                    Municipal Code Provision
Automobile Rental Use Tax    1%
Automobile Renting           1%                        1-8E-1A
Occupation Tax
Cable and video service:
                             1% of holder's gross
                             revenues or, if greater,
                             the percentage of gross
PEG access support fee       revenues that incumbent   3-11-3A
                             cable operators pay to
                             the Village or its
                             designee for PEG access
                             support in the Village
Provider fee                 5% of holder's gross      3-11-2A
                             revenues
Electric Utility Tax, calculated on a monthly basis    1-8C-2A
for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or       Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
Consumed In A Month
      First 2,000      $0.553
       Next 48,000    0.416
       Next 50,000    0.323
       Next 400,000   0.315
       Next 500,000   0.300
       Next 2,000,000 0.280
       Next 2,000,000 0.260
       Next 5,000,000 0.240
       Next 10,000,0000.220
       Excess of 20,000.200
                             Not to exceed $0.05 per
                             $100.00 of the full, fair
                             cash value as equalized
                             by the Department of
Emergency Disaster Services  Revenue of the State of
Agency Tax                   Illinois on all taxable   2-7-13
                             property in the Village.
                             However, that amount
                             collectible under such
                             levy shall in no event
                             exceed $0.25 per capita
Foreign fire insurance       2% of gross receipts      1-8F-1
companies
Home Rule Food and Alcoholic 1% of the purchase price  1-8J-2
Beverage Tax
Home Rule Hotel Tax          7% of gross revenues      1-8H-2
Home Rule Municipal          1% of gross receipts      1-8D-1A
Retailers' Occupation Tax
Home Rule Municipal Service  1% of selling price       1-8D-2A
Occupation Tax
Home Rule Municipal Use Tax  1% of selling price       1-8D-3A
                             0.05% of the full fair
Public Benefit Tax           cash value as equalized   1-8A-1
                             or assessed by the State
                             Department of Revenue
Simplified Municipal         5% of gross receipts      1-8G-2A
Telecommunications Tax
Utility Tax                  5% of gross receipts      1-8B-2
 
USER CHARGES AND CONNECTION FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                Amount                      Municipal Code Provision
Water meter reading fee:   $20.00 per reading          8-1B-1
Water rate:                                           8-1B-1
Within the Village         $8.39 per 1,000 gallons of   
                           water usage
Outside the Village        $9.64 per 1,000 gallons of   
                           water usage
Water service, account                                  
maintenance fee:
1" or less meter size      $10.00 per quarter           
1.5" meter                 $15.00 per quarter           
2" meter                   $25.00 per quarter           
3" meter                   $50.00 per quarter           
4" meter                   $75.00 per quarter           
5" meter                   $100.00 per quarter          
6" or greater meter        $200.00 per quarter          
Water system recapture                                 
connection fee:
Within the Village:                                    
Per residential dwelling   $400.00 per 1/8 inch of tap  
unit                       size
New commercial             $0.73 per square foot        
construction
New tax exempt             $0.67 per square foot        
institutional construction
Water system tap size      $400.00 per 1/8 inch of tap  
increase9                  size
Outside the Village        $600.00 per 1/8 inch of tap  
                           size
                                                       8-1A-3C3,
Turning water on and off   $25.00                      8-1A-10,
                                                       8-1B-2B,
                                                       8-1C-9
Reinstating water to a     10.00                       8-1A-10
plugged pipe
Delinquent payment fee     1.5% of the outstanding     8-1B-5C
                           balance
Use of water by            $10.00 for meter rental,
construction contractors   plus charge for use of the  8-1C-7
                           water
Cross connection control
violations; fee to         $100.00                     8-1E-5
reconnect water service
Sanitary sewer rate:                                  8-1B-1
Within the Village         $1.10 per 1,000 gallons of   
                           water usage
Outside the Village        $1.21 per 1,000 gallons of   
                           water usage
Sanitary sewer service,    $0.00 per quarter            
account maintenance fee
Sanitary sewer system                                  
recapture connection fee:
Within the Village         $1,000.00                    
Outside the Village        2,000.00                     
Storm sewer system
recapture connection fee:                              
10
Within the Village         750.00                       
Outside the Village        1,000.00                     
Stormwater Utility Fee                                8-1B-1
Rate:
Within the Village         $195.00 per Equivalent       
                           Runoff Unit (ERU)
Stormwater management                                  
incentives:
Rain Garden                250.00                       
Runoff Rate Reduction      250.00                       
Runoff Volume Reduction    250.00                       
Runoff Water Quality       250.00                       
Rain barrel                25.00                        
 
 
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT FEES
Description Amount Municipal Code Provision
Description                                Amount     Municipal Code Provision
Transport Fee:
Resident and nonresident                   $1,732.00
Treatment but No Transport Fee:
Treatment Fee Resident and non resident    $250.00
Lift Assist Fee (within any given 12 month
period):
Resident and nonresident 1st Call for Lift $100.00
Assist
Resident and nonresident 2nd Call for Lift $150.00
Assist
Resident and nonresident 3rd Call and      $300.00
Thereafter for Lift Assist
Mileage Fee (charged in conjunction with   $7.27/mile
all Transports):
 
WASTE DISPOSAL CHARGES
 
Description                Amount                      Municipal Code Provision
                           Basic service at no cost to
Residential Waste Disposal resident;
Services (residential      Optional services billed    3-4-3(A)
properties with three or   directly by franchisee at
fewer dwelling units)      rates pursuant to franchise
                           agreement.
Commercial Waste Disposal  All services billed
Services (all properties   directly by franchisee at   3-4-3(B)
not eligible for           rates pursuant to franchise
Residential Services)      agreement.
 
Notes:
   1.    Includes the construction of Municipal utilities, including stormwater
detention facilities, and the construction of private/public roadways and all
new parking lots associated with new construction.
   2.    The historic preservation fee waiver applies to all fees listed under
the "Construction/Building Fees" heading and authorized pursuant to any
provision of Title 9 ("Building Regulations"); provided, however, that the
waiver does not apply to fees for: (i) renewals of expired permits; (ii)
demolition permits; (iii) re-inspections; (iv) occupancy certificates and
copies thereof; and (v) plan reviews where no permits are issued. See Section
9-14-10(K) for rules of applicability.
   3.    For purposes of determining square footage for demolition permit fees,
only the square footage of floor area at or above grade shall be counted.
   4.    "Costs" for preannexation include all legal, engineering, and other
consulting and administrative fees, costs, and expenses that are incurred in
connection with review and processing of the preannexation.
   5.    "Costs" for annexation include all legal, engineering, and other
consulting and administrative fees, costs, and expenses that are incurred in
connection with review and processing of the annexation.
   6.    "Costs" for subdivisions and planned developments include all legal,
engineering, and other consulting and administrative fees, costs, and expenses
that are incurred in connection with review and processing of the subdivision
or planned development, including construction observation services related to
all infrastructure construction associated with a development. An escrow and a
maintenance guarantee are also required and shall be maintained to cover costs
incurred as a result of a development.
   7.    When consulting fees are incurred by the Village for the processing of
watershed development permits, the applicant shall pay the Village for the cost
incurred for utilizing the consultant in lieu of applicable fee(s) listed
herein.
   8.    "Major development", "minor development", and the permit categories
used in this section shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Village
Watershed Development Ordinance. (See section
12-1-1 of this Code.)
   9.   The fee for a water tap size increase shall be waived where the
increased tap size is necessary for an existing building to provide automatic
fire sprinklers as required by Section
9-2-3, subsection 903.2 (for work subject to the International Building Code)
and Section
9-3-3, subsection R313.2.1 (for work subject to the International Residential
Code).
   10.   The Building Commissioner may, in his sole and absolute discretion,
waive the storm sewer recapture fee when the work (i) is necessary to cure
existing drainage problems on the subject property or other properties; and
(ii) furthers the purposes and intent of this Code.
(Ord. 2014-9, 4-29-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-7, 4-24-2017; Ord. 2017-14, 6-26-2017;
Ord. 2018-5, 4-23-2018; Ord. 2018-15, 7-23-2018; Ord. 2018-16, 8-27-2018; Ord.
2019-4, 1-28-2019; Ord. 2019-11, 4-22-2019, eff. 5-1-2019; Ord. 2019-12, 4-22-
2019; Ord. 2019-14, 5-13-2019; Ord. 2020-2, 1-13-2020; Ord. 2020-7, 4-27-2020;
Ord. 2020-12, 7-13-2020; Ord. 2020-17, 10-12-2020; Ord. 2020-20, 11-9-2020;
Ord. 2021-2, 2-8-2021; Ord. 2021-9, 4-26-2021; Ord. 2021-147-12-2021; Ord.
2022-10, 3-28-2022; Ord. 2022-15, 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-35, 11-28-2022; Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022; Ord. 2022-35, 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-8, 4-24-2023; Ord.
2023-16, 6-12-2023; Ord. 2023-18, 6-26-2023; Ord. 2024-8, 4-24-2024; Ord. 2024-
19, 9-9-2024; Ord. 2025-13, 4-28-2025)
1-12-4: PAYMENT OF FEES, CHARGES AND RATES:
A.   Payment Period: All fees, service charges, charges, rates or similar
impositions (collectively referred to as "fees") required to be paid pursuant
to this Code shall be fully paid and satisfied within thirty (30) days after
the Village request for payment is made by invoice or otherwise. In the event
that a shorter or longer payment period is expressly stated in this Code or
otherwise established by the Village with respect to a specific fee, such
shorter or longer payment period shall govern for that specific fee.
B.   Failure To Pay: The failure to pay any fee within the applicable time
period for payment shall:
1.   Constitute an offense by the party applying for the service, permit or
matter for which the fee is imposed; and
2.   Constitute an offense by the user of the service, permit or matter for
which the fee is imposed; and
3.   Constitute a lien on the real property, if any, to or upon which the
service, permit or matter is applied or used; provided, however, that:
a.   The Village Administrator shall file, or cause to be filed, a notice of
such lien in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds, or Registrar of Titles
if the property is registered under the Torrens system, which notice shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out:
(1)   A legal or other description of the property sufficient for the
identification thereof;
(2)   The amount of the money due;
(3)   The date when such amount became due;
(4)   Notice that costs of collection, including attorney fees, will be added
to the unpaid amount; and
b.   No less than ten (10) days prior to the filing of the notice of lien, the
Village Administrator shall mail, or cause to be mailed, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, a copy of the notice of lien to the current or last
known owner of the property.
c.   Any lien filed pursuant to this section may be foreclosed in the manner
provided by statute for mortgages or mechanics' liens. (2009 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF HEALTH
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation; Composition; Appointment And Term; Compensation
2-1-2: Meetings
2-1-3: Health Officer
2-1-4: Secretary
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-6: Violation
2-1-1: CREATION; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created and established a board of health in and for the
village, which board shall consist of three (3) members appointed by the
village president, by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
One of such members shall be the health officer of the village who shall act as
president of the board of health. Each such member shall hold office for a term
of one year, and until their successors shall be appointed and qualified. All
members of the board of health shall serve without compensation. (1988 Code §
2-1-1)
2-1-2: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the board of health may be called by the president of said board,
who shall designate the time and place of such meetings. Meetings of said board
of health may also be called by the village president, who shall designate the
time and place of such meetings, or by a written notice signed by the other two
(2) members of said board of health, which notice shall state the time and
place of such meetings and the purpose for which they are called. (1988 Code §
2-1-2)
2-1-3: HEALTH OFFICER:
The health officer shall be a physician licensed by the state, appointed by the
village president, with the approval of the board of trustees, and shall hold
said office until the health officer's successor is duly appointed and
qualified. (1988 Code § 2-1-3)
2-1-4: SECRETARY:
A.   Appointment: The president shall designate one of the other two (2)
members of the board to act as secretary for the board.
B.   Duties: The secretary shall attend all meetings of the board of health,
shall keep a record, in a book provided for that purpose, of all minutes and
all business transacted by the board of health, and shall perform such other
duties as the board of trustees may direct. All official books, records and
minutes shall be maintained in the village hall, and copies of minutes of all
meetings shall be turned over to the village clerk after their preparation and
approval. To assist in such duties, the board may employ the services of a
stenographer at such compensation approved by the village administrator. Such
employment shall not relieve the secretary of the duties set forth herein.
(1988 Code § 2-1-4)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of health shall have the powers and perform the duties assigned to it
by statute or ordinance and shall act in all cases within its jurisdiction when
other health agencies possessing similar power and authority are unable or
unwilling to act. The board of health shall have power to make such rules and
regulations and to employ such measures as are necessary, including the posting
of notices, to promote the health, cleanliness and sanitation of the village,
and to prevent, restrict and suppress communicable diseases. For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the members of the board of health
and its officers, or any of them, with proper authority, shall be permitted to
enter, at any reasonable hour, any premises, store, house, stable, manufactory
or other buildings, and the board members, or any of them, shall have the right
to arrest or cause to be arrested any persons who violate any of the provisions
of this chapter. (1988 Code § 2-1-5)
2-1-6: VIOLATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or refuse to obey any order of
the board of health or to destroy, mutilate or conceal any notice posted by or
under the authority of said board. (1988 Code § 2-1-6)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Membership; Compensation
2-2-2: Powers And Duties
2-2-3: Secretary
2-2-1: MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION:
The members of the village board of trustees shall act as members of the board
of local improvements of the village, unless hereinafter provided by ordinance.
Said members, together with the village president, shall constitute the members
of the board of local improvements of the village. The village president shall
act as president of the board of local improvements. All members of the board
of local improvements shall serve without compensation. (1988 Code § 2-2-1)
2-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of local improvements shall be responsible for the administration of
the construction of local improvements as set forth in the Illinois statutes
and shall, when directed by the board of trustees, perform such duties and
responsibilities as directed and as set forth in any local improvements
ordinance. (1988 Code § 2-2-2)
2-2-3: SECRETARY:
A.   Designated: The village clerk shall act as secretary of the board of local
improvements for the village.
B.   Records Of Business: The secretary shall record, in a book to be kept for
that purpose, before the next regular meeting after their passage, all
estimates and resolutions passed by the board of local improvements, and a
record of all business transacted by the board of local improvements.
C.   Communications: All petitions, remonstrances, bids, bills or other
communications addressed to the board of local improvements shall be received
by the secretary and read by the secretary at the meeting of the board of local
improvements next succeeding the receipt thereof by the secretary unless
otherwise ordered by said board.
D.   Notification Of Meetings: It shall be the duty of the secretary to notify
the village president and all members of the board of local improvements of all
special, called or adjourned meetings.
E.   Custodian Of Records: The secretary shall be the custodian and keeper of
all the books, records, estimates, resolutions and papers of the board of local
improvements, except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (1988 Code § 2-
2-3; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PLAN COMMISSION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-10, 4-9-2012, eff. 5-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
CHAPTER 4
ARCHITECTURAL BOARD OF REVIEW
SECTION:
2-4-1: Established; Composition; Appointment And Term; Quorum; Compensation
2-4-2: Meetings
2-4-3: Vacancies
2-4-4: Powers And Duties
2-4-5: Secretary; Records
2-4-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; QUORUM; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby established an architectural board of review for the village.
The board shall consist of seven (7) members, to be appointed by the village
president, subject to the confirmation by the board of trustees. Each such
member shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years of staggered terms. The
president shall designate the chair of the board from the membership thereof. A
majority of the members appointed to the architectural board of review must be
either architects duly licensed by the state of Illinois or, if sufficient
number of licensed architects are not available to serve, a combination of
licensed architects and otherwise qualified design professionals. For purpose
of a quorum, or acting upon any matter properly before the board, any four (4)
members shall constitute a quorum. The building commissioner shall be an ex
officio member of the architectural board of review, and all members shall
serve without compensation. (Ord. 93-6, 5-24-1993; amd. Ord. 2022-4, 1-24-2022)
2-4-2: MEETINGS:
Whenever any business is pending before the architectural board of review, they
shall meet on the fourth Tuesday in each month, commencing at the hour of seven
forty five o'clock (7:45) P.M., in the board room, village hall. Special
meetings of the architectural board of review shall be held on call of the
chair of the board, provided notice required by law is given of such a public
meeting. (1988 Code § 2-4-2)
2-4-3: VACANCIES:
In the event of the death, resignation, retirement or inability of any
architect to serve as a member of the architectural board of review, following
appointment, notwithstanding the requirement of a majority of architects on
said board, during the period of time until a successor or successors are
appointed, the remaining members of the board may act on any matter with full
authority, provided a quorum of those who are members of said board are
present. (1988 Code § 2-4-3)
2-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The architectural board of review shall also function as an architectural board
of appeals. The architectural board of review shall have those powers as
provided by the ordinances of the village heretofore and hereinafter enacted,
including powers granted to the architectural board of appeals. (1988 Code § 2-
4-4)
2-4-5: SECRETARY; RECORDS:
A.   The village administrator or his designee shall serve as secretary to the
architectural board of review. The secretary shall keep minutes of all
proceedings, record the vote of each member upon every question and all
findings of fact and keep all records of the architectural board of review. To
assist in such duties, the architectural board of review may employ the
services of a stenographer at such compensation approved by the village
administrator.
B.   All official books, records and minutes shall be maintained in the village
hall, and copies of minutes of all meetings shall be turned over to the village
clerk after their preparation and approval. (1988 Code § 2-4-5)
CHAPTER 5
JOINT PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS ("PCZBA")
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation; Appointment; Terms Of Office; Chair; Compensation
2-5-2: Duties
2-5-3: Rules Of Procedure
2-5-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; CHAIR; COMPENSATION:
A.   Creation; Appointment: The joint plan commission and zoning board of
appeals ("PCZBA") is hereby created. The PCZBA shall have seven (7) members,
except that, as of the May 1, 2012 effective date of this amendatory provision,
the initial members of the PCZBA shall be the thirteen (13) then current
members of the plan commission and zoning board of appeals. Upon the
resignation of an initial member of the PCZBA or the expiration of that initial
member's term, no further members will be appointed to the PCZBA unless such
appointment is necessary for the PCZBA to have seven (7) members.
B.   Terms Of Office: Each initial PCZBA member shall serve for the remainder
of that member's then current term with the plan commission or zoning board of
appeals. All subsequent terms of PCZBA members shall be for three (3) years.
C.   Chair; Vice Chair: One PCZBA member shall be designated as chair and one
PCZBA member shall be designated as vice chair by the village president. The
initial PCZBA chair shall be the then current chair of the zoning board of
appeals.
D.   No Compensation: All PCZBA members shall serve without compensation. (Ord.
2012-10, 4-9-2012, eff. 5-1-2012)
2-5-2: DUTIES:
A.   The PCZBA shall have all the duties and responsibilities specified in this
code, including, without limitation, to hear and decide any appeal from an
order, decision, or interpretation of the administrative officer charged with
enforcement of, or any matter referred thereto or upon which it is required to
pass, under title 10 of this code.
B.   Any reference in this code to the plan commission or the zoning board of
appeals shall be construed as a reference to the PCZBA, and any duties and
responsibilities of the plan commission and the zoning board of appeals
described in this code shall be considered duties of the PCZBA. (Ord. 2012-10,
4-9-2012, eff. 5-1-2012)
2-5-3: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
A.   Chair: The chair shall preside at all public hearings and meetings of the
PCZBA. In the chair's absence, the vice chair shall perform the functions of
the chair.
B.   Secretary; Records:
1.   The village administrator or his designee shall serve as the secretary to
the PCZBA. The secretary shall keep minutes of all proceedings, record the vote
of each member, the absence or failure to vote of any member and records of
hearings and other official actions. In the absence of the secretary of the
PCZBA, the village clerk or deputy village clerk shall have the duties of the
secretary under this section.
2.   All records of the PCZBA shall be kept in the office of the village clerk
and shall be public records.
C.   Minutes: Minutes of the PCZBA will be considered for approval by the PCZBA
at the next available meeting after their preparation.
D.   Meetings:
1.   Time And Place: PCZBA meetings shall be held on the third Wednesday in
each month commencing at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. in the board
room, village hall, and at such other times and places as may be called by the
chair, and at such other times as the PCZBA shall determine, upon proper notice
pursuant to the open meetings act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq.
2.   Quorum: A quorum of the PCZBA shall consist of four (4) members.
E.   Appeals; Time For Filing: Appeals from orders or decisions based on the
zoning regulations may be taken to the PCZBA by any person aggrieved or by any
officer or department of the village. Such appeal shall be filed in duplicate
with the secretary of the PCZBA within forty five (45) days from the order or
decision, and one copy thereof shall be filed with the officer or department
whose decision or order is being appealed. The notice of appeal shall specify
the particular grounds for the appeal. Upon receipt of the appeal, the officer
or department from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the PCZBA the
record concerning the decision which is being appealed.
F.   Fees: A filing fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, shall be delivered to the village at the time of the
filing of the application.
G.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the PCZBA stays all proceedings
concerning the action appealed from, unless the village determines that such
stay would cause imminent harm to the public health, safety, or welfare, in
which case the proceedings shall not be stayed unless the circuit court enjoins
the proceedings.
H.   Hearing On Appeals: Appeals shall be set for hearing within a reasonable
time from the date of filing of a notice of appeal, upon due notice being given
to the parties, as well as any and all required notice by publication and to
property owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') in all directions,
excluding public ways, streets, roads, alleys and the like, of the premises at
issue. Such hearing may be continued from time to time by direction of the
PCZBA. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney. Within a reasonable time following the completion of hearings, the
PCZBA shall complete its consideration of the appeal by reversing, affirming,
or modifying, in whole or in part, the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and to that end has all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
I.   Procedure At Hearings: The PCZBA may adopt rules of procedure to govern
its hearings.
J.   Final Decisions Subject To Review: All final administrative decisions of
the PCZBA shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review
act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. 2012-10, 4-9-2012,
eff. 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Purpose
2-6-2: Creation; Composition; Term Of Office; Vacancies; Compensation
2-6-3: Disposition Of Proceeds
2-6-4: Powers And Duties
2-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
management and administration of foreign fire insurance taxes collected by the
village pursuant to title 1, chapter 8, article F of this code and 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-1 and 5/11-10-2. (Ord. 93-13, 7-26-1993)
2-6-2: CREATION; COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
A.   Creation; Composition; Officers: There is hereby created for the village a
fire insurance board consisting of three (3) members. The fire chief shall
serve as a member of the board and shall be the president of the board. The
other two (2) members of the board shall be elected by the members of the fire
department from among themselves to serve as treasurer and secretary of the
board.
B.   Term Of Office; Vacancies: The members so elected from the department
shall serve for a term of one year. No member shall hold any office after
termination or resignation from the fire department. Any vacancy that may occur
as a result of a member leaving office or expiration of a term of office that
has not been filled by election shall be filled for the balance of the
unexpired term by appointment of the fire chief.
C.   Compensation: All members of the board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 93-13, 7-26-1993)
2-6-3: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
The village treasurer shall receive the monies paid to the village in
accordance with title 1, chapter 8, article F of this code and shall pay to the
treasurer of the fire insurance board all such monies into an account
designated as the "foreign fire insurance account". (Ord. 93-13, 7-26-1993)
2-6-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
A.   Generally: The fire insurance board shall have the power to administer and
to enter into contracts and agreements for the expenditure of monies from the
foreign fire insurance account for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the
fire department. All actions of the fire insurance board shall be in accordance
with the standards for the foreign fire insurance account established by this
section and all other requirements provided by law.
B.   Foreign Fire Insurance Account: The foreign fire insurance account shall
be administered in accordance with the following standards:
1.   Use Of Funds: Expenditures may be made for furthering the training,
safety, health, welfare, morale and recruitment of members as well as for the
purchase of firefighting equipment. Any firefighting equipment purchased with
monies from the account shall thereupon become the property of the village.
Monies from the account shall not be used for the personal benefit of any
person; or for any person's use or function not directly related to
maintenance, use and benefit of the fire department. The fire insurance board,
upon a majority vote, shall refuse any request for expenditure of funds from
the account made by a majority of the members of the fire department if it does
not meet the requirements of this code or other requirements provided by law.
The fire insurance board shall not enter into any contract or agreement
obligating expenditures from the foreign fire insurance account in excess of
the amount of monies currently on deposit in and currently available for use
from the account.
2.   Designation Of Uses:
a.   Meeting Required; Notice: The fire insurance board shall authorize the
expenditure of money from the foreign fire insurance account only at a meeting
conducted at the fire department building and open to all members of the fire
department. Notice of each such meeting shall be given at least forty eight
(48) hours in advance of such meeting by posting notice thereof in a prominent
location at the fire department building.
b.   Necessary Vote: An affirmative vote of a majority of the fire department
members present at any duly noticed meeting shall be required to authorize any
expenditure of money from the foreign fire insurance account by the fire
insurance board.
3.   Payouts: All checks or other withdrawals from the account shall be signed
by the fire insurance board treasurer and fire chief.
4.   Investment Of Funds: Foreign fire insurance tax monies shall be deposited
only in one or more of the following: checking account, interest bearing
savings account, or interest bearing time deposit of any bank insured by the
banking insurance fund of the FDIC. Total deposits in any one bank may not
exceed the FDIC insured limits.
5.   Records:
a.   The fire insurance board treasurer shall keep accurate and current records
of the foreign fire insurance account, including all deposits thereto,
withdrawals or disbursements therefrom, balances and the like.
b.   The fire insurance board secretary shall keep accurate and current minutes
of the meetings conducted by and decisions made by the officers of the fire
insurance board related to the foreign fire insurance account. (Ord. 93-13, 7-
26-1993)
6.   Reports And Audits: The fire insurance board treasurer shall report on the
expenditures and balance of the funds to the members of the board and the fire
department at the monthly meeting or at any special meeting called by the fire
insurance board. The treasurer shall remit a detailed list of the withdrawals,
deposits, balance and a copy of the bank statement to the director of finance
within forty five (45) days after the end of each month. The foreign fire
insurance account shall be subject to review during the annual independent
audit of village funds to be conducted after the end of each fiscal year and
during any special audits of village funds that may be conducted from time to
time. (Ord. 93-13, 7-26-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
EMERGENCY DISASTER SERVICE AGENCY
SECTION:
2-7-1: Department Established
2-7-2: Purpose
2-7-3: Organization
2-7-4: Coordinator
2-7-5: Mobile Support Teams
2-7-6: Mutual Aid
2-7-7: Emergency Action
2-7-8: Compensation
2-7-9: Reimbursement Of Expenses
2-7-10: Purchases And Expenditures
2-7-11: Oath Of Office
2-7-12: Office Facilities
2-7-13: Appropriations And Tax Levies
2-7-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a department of the municipal
government of the village to be known as the Lake Bluff emergency disaster
service agency (LBEDSA). (1988 Code § 8-3A-1)
2-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of LBEDSA shall be to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate
injury or damage resulting from hostile action, or from natural or manmade
disasters, in accordance with the Illinois emergency management agency act of
1992, as amended 1 . (1988 Code § 8-3A-2)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-7-3: ORGANIZATION:
The LBEDSA of the village shall consist of a coordinator, and such additional
members as may be authorized by the village, and thereafter selected by the
coordinator. (1988 Code § 8-3A-3)
2-7-4: COORDINATOR:
A.   Appointment: The coordinator of the LBEDSA shall be appointed by the
village president and confirmed by the other members of the board of trustees,
and shall serve during the pleasure of the entire board of trustees. (1988 Code
§ 8-3A-4)
B.   Duties:
1.   The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the LBEDSA, subject to the direction
and control of the village president, as provided by the village ordinances in
such cases made and provided.
2.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability of the
coordinator to serve, the village president, or any person designated by said
president shall be and act as director until a new appointment is made as
provided in this chapter. (1988 Code § 8-3A-5)
C.   Additional Duties: The LBEDSA shall perform such emergency management
functions within the village as shall be prescribed in and by the state IEMA
plan and program prepared by the governor, and such orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the governor, and in addition, shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality,
or, quasi-municipality entered into as provided in the Illinois emergency
management agency act of 1992, as amended. (1988 Code § 8-3A-6)
2-7-5: MOBILE SUPPORT TEAMS:
A.   Designation: All or any members of the LBEDSA organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the director of the
state Illinois emergency management agency (IEMA) as provided by law.
B.   Leader: The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
coordinator of the LBEDSA organization.
C.   Compensation: Any member of a mobile support team who is a village
employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the governor or the state
director shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the state, reasonable compensation as provided by law. (1988 Code § 8-3A-7)
2-7-6: MUTUAL AID:
The coordinator of LBEDSA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the president and board of trustees of
the village and by the state director of IEMA. (1988 Code § 8-3A-8)
2-7-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor of Illinois proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the
event of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within
the state of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or
other hostile action, or from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty
of the LBEDSA to cooperate fully with the state IEMA and with the governor in
the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (1988 Code § 8-3A-9)
2-7-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the LBEDSA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the state director of IEMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training, the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time, such compensation as may be established from time to time
by the president and board of trustees of the village. (1988 Code § 8-3A-10)
2-7-9: REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES:
The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the LBEDSA as prescribed by the state director of IEMA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the governor or state director of
IEMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to LBEDSA activities as provided by law. (1988 Code § 8-3A-11)
2-7-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
A.   Contracts: The village president may, on recommendation of the village
coordinator of LBEDSA, authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to place
the village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims
in the case of such disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster.
B.   Materials: In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the coordinator
of LBEDSA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the Illinois emergency management agency act of 1992, as amended;
provided, that if the village board meets at such time, the coordinator shall
act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body. (1988 Code
§ 8-3A-12)
2-7-11: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the LBEDSA organization
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the following oath,
which shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,        , do solemnly swear (or affirm), that I will support and defend and
bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
affiliated with the Lake Bluff Emergency Disaster Service Agency organization,
I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of the
State of Illinois by force or violence.
(1988 Code § 8-3A-13)
2-7-12: OFFICE FACILITIES:
The village president is authorized to designate space in a village building or
elsewhere, as may be provided by the village president, for the LBEDSA as its
office. (1988 Code § 8-3A-14)
2-7-13: APPROPRIATIONS AND TAX LEVIES:
The president and board of trustees may make an appropriation for LBEDSA
purposes in the manner provided by law and may levy, in addition, for LBEDSA
purposes only, a tax as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "taxes", which said tax shall be in
addition to all other taxes, as provided by the Illinois emergency management
agency act of 1992, as amended. (1988 Code § 8-3A-15; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ATTENDANCE OF COMMISSION MEMBERS
SECTION:
2-8-1: Automatic Resignation For Repeated Absences
2-8-2: Definitions
2-8-3: Written Warning Notice
2-8-4: Effective Date Of Resignation And Vacancy
2-8-5: Determination Of "Valid Reason"
2-8-1: AUTOMATIC RESIGNATION FOR REPEATED ABSENCES:
Any member of a commission who, for no valid reason, is absent from, or fails
to attend, either: a) three (3) consecutive meetings of the applicable
commission, or b) at least sixty five percent (65%) of the total of all
meetings of the applicable commission commenced during any one year period,
shall, effective as of the date set forth in section
2-8-4 of this chapter, be deemed to have resigned from the commission and that
member's office shall, automatically and without further action, be deemed to
be vacant as of such date. (Ord. 2012-18, 8-13-2012)
2-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
COMMISSION: Any board, commission, committee or other group whose members are
appointed by the village president or the village board.
ONE YEAR PERIOD: January through the following December 31.
VALID REASON: Only as determined by the village board in accordance with
section
2-8-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-18, 8-13-2012)
2-8-3: WRITTEN WARNING NOTICE:
The village administrator, or his designee, shall, prior to the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the applicable commission, deliver a written warning
notice to any member who, by failing to attend any future regular or special
meeting of the commission during the remainder of the applicable year, is at
risk of automatic removal pursuant to section
2-8-1 of this chapter. The failure of a member to receive such written notice
shall not constitute a valid reason for absence from a meeting. (Ord. 2012-18,
8-13-2012)
2-8-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF RESIGNATION AND VACANCY:
The member's resignation, and the vacancy of the member's office, shall be
effective on the date that is ten (10) days after the date of the final absence
that triggers the removal action set forth in section
2-8-1 of this chapter, unless a timely request for a determination of "valid
reason" has been filed pursuant to section
2-8-5 of this chapter, in which case the resignation and vacancy shall be
effective upon final resolution of such request. (Ord. 2012-18, 8-13-2012)
2-8-5: DETERMINATION OF "VALID REASON":
Except for excused absences as described in subsection C of this section, the
determination of a "valid reason" for a member to be absent from, or fail to
attend, an applicable commission meeting shall be made only by the village
board, by a majority vote of those present and voting at a regular or special
meeting of the village board. The decision of the village board shall be final
and binding.
A.   Preabsence Determination: A member shall have the right to request that
the village board determine, in advance of an anticipated absence, whether a
valid reason exists for such absence. Such request shall be made in writing and
delivered to the village administrator at least seven (7) days prior to the
village board meeting.
B.   Postabsence Determination: A member shall have the right, within ten (10)
days after the occurrence of any absence, to request that the village board
determine whether a valid reason existed for that particular absence. Such
request shall be made in writing and delivered to the village administrator at
least seven (7) days prior to the village board meeting.
C.   Excused Absences: The village board will presume that a valid reason for
an absence exists when the member's request demonstrates that the absence is an
excused absence due to: 1) personal illness or disability, 2) employment
purposes or the business of the public body, or 3) a family or other emergency,
unless the village board determines within two (2) board meetings after receipt
of the request that the member did not demonstrate an excused absence pursuant
to this subsection. (Ord. 2012-18, 8-13-2012)
CHAPTER 9
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1: Creation; Appointment; Terms Of Office; Chair; Compensation
2-9-2: Duties
2-9-3: Procedure
2-9-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE; CHAIR; COMPENSATION:
A.   Creation; Purpose. There is hereby created the Lake Bluff Historic
Preservation Commission. The purpose of the Commission is to assist the Village
Board in making decisions and establishing policies regarding the preservation,
protection, enhancement, rehabilitation, reconstruction, maintenance, and use
of historic structures, buildings, sites, and landscapes in the Village, and to
educate Village residents on the importance of historic preservation, all as
further provided in this chapter.
B.   Appointment; Qualifications. The Commission consists of seven members
appointed by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The Village President will attempt to appoint to the Commission at
least one person each from the board of the Lake Bluff History Museum, the
Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals, and the Architectural Board
of Review, and three Village residents. Commissioners are appointed on the
basis of expertise, experience, and interest in historic preservation,
architectural history, building construction and engineering, finance,
neighborhood organization, and real estate development. Consideration is to be
given to appointment of residents from a variety of geographic areas within the
Village.
C.   Terms of Office. Commissioners serve for a term of four years and until
their successors have been appointed and have qualified for office.
Commissioners are eligible for reappointment. The Village Board has the power
to remove any commissioner for cause. Any vacancy that may occur will be filled
for the balance of the unexpired term by appointment by the Village President,
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
D.   Chair. The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, will designate one Commissioner as Chairperson.
E.   No Compensation. All members serve without compensation. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-
28-2022)
2-9-2: DUTIES:
Subject to the laws of the State of Illinois, this chapter, and any other
ordinances and resolutions of the Village, the Commission has the following
powers and duties:
A.   To perform those functions set forth in the Village’s Historic
Preservation Regulations, as codified in Title 9, Chapter 14 of the Municipal
Code.
B.   To inform and educate the residents of the Village concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the Village by preparing appropriate publications
and by conducting programs and seminars.
C.   To provide information and assistance concerning the preparation of any
application set forth in the Village’s Historic Preservation Regulations, or
any application for a State or Federal program or designation concerning
historic preservation.
D.   For Protected Features pursuant to the Historic Preservation Regulations,
to seek designation of “historic buildings” with the Illinois Historic
Preservation Agency and the United States Department of the Interior under the
Illinois Property Tax Code, 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq., or as “certified historic
structures” under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, 26 USC section 1 et seq., or
under other legislation subsequently enacted by the State of Illinois or the
United States.
E.   To develop and maintain technical information relating to historic
preservation, rehabilitation, and restoration, and to provide assistance
relating to such matters to architects, contractors, property owners, and other
persons involved in real estate development and construction within the
Village.
F.   Upon referral by the Building Commissioner or another Village board or
commission, to review and provide recommendations regarding any application for
subdivision, site plan approval, or other zoning relief that may involve
historic preservation considerations; provided that the Commission’s
recommendation is not a prerequisite to the consideration, approval, or denial
of said applications.
G.   To study and make recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees other
desirable changes to Village rules, regulations, and policies to promote
historic preservation within the Village, including without limitation changes
to the Village’s building, subdivision, or zoning regulations or the fees
charged for development.
H.   To submit an annual report to the Village Board of Trustees summarizing
the Commission’s activities during the preceding year and reviewing current
preservation issues in the Village.
I.   To seek certified local government status from the United States
Department of the Interior for purposes of qualifying for financial and other
assistance available through the Department of the Interior and other sources.
J.   To perform such other functions as directed by the Village Board of
Trustees, including those functions provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-48.2 not otherwise
provided for in the Historic Preservation Regulations. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-
2022)
2-9-3: PROCEDURE:
A.   Meeting Schedule. Commission meetings are held on the second Wednesday of
each month commencing at the hour of 7:00 P.M. in the Board Room of Village
Hall, and at such other times and places as may be called by the Chairperson,
and at such other times as the Commission may determine, upon proper notice
pursuant to the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/).
B.   Presiding Officer. The Chairperson will preside over all meetings and
hearings of the Commission. In the absence of the Chairperson, a temporary
Chairperson (or chair pro-tempore) must be elected by the Commission to assume
the duties and responsibilities of the Chairperson.
C.   Quorum. A quorum of the Commission consists of four members.
D.   Secretary; Records. The Village Administrator or his or her designee
serves as the secretary to the Commission. The secretary will keep minutes of
all proceedings, record the vote of each member, the absence or failure to vote
of any member and records of hearings and other official actions. All records
of the Commission are kept in the office of the Village Clerk and are public
records.
E.   Open Meetings. All meetings and hearings of the Commission are conducted
in accordance with the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/).
F.   Rules. The Commission may adopt its own rules of procedure. In the absence
of such rules, the Commission will conduct its business, as nearly as
practicable, in accordance with “Robert’s Rules Of Order”.
G.   Disqualification From Voting. No member of the Commission can vote on any
matter involving any property in which such Commissioner has a legal or
beneficial ownership interest or on any other matter where such Commissioner’s
interest would violate any other applicable law. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications For Licenses; Qualifications Of Licensees
3-1-2: Issuance Of Licenses
3-1-3: Prorated Fee; New License Applications
3-1-4: License Transfers
3-1-5: Violations; Penalty; Revocation Of License
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES; QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEES:
All applications for licenses shall be made to the office of the village clerk,
upon the terms specified in this chapter, and all licenses shall be issued to
such persons as shall comply in all respects with the provisions hereof, and
who shall be deemed suitable and proper persons to be licensed. (1988 Code § 3-
1-1)
3-1-2: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
A.   Village Clerk To Issue; Contents: Unless otherwise provided in this code,
each and every license authorized and required by the village shall be issued
by the village clerk upon payment of the amount of the license fee or tax, and
upon compliance with this chapter, and each license shall express for what it
is granted and the time it is to continue, if the license is limited as to
time. (1988 Code § 3-1-2; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Expiration; Signatures Required: All licenses shall expire on or before
April 30 next following, unless otherwise provided. Each license shall be
signed by the village president and countersigned by the village clerk under
the corporate seal. (1988 Code § 3-1-2)
3-1-3: PRORATED FEE; NEW LICENSE APPLICATIONS:
Unless otherwise provided, any license which is issued after six (6) months
have elapsed for the license period and the license was not due and payable
prior thereto, the fee therefor shall be one-half (1/2) of the yearly license
fee; and provided further, that no person shall be entitled to the benefit of
this section who shall be engaged in the business for which he applies for a
license at the time of his application. (1988 Code § 3-1-3)
3-1-4: LICENSE TRANSFERS:
A.   Village Permission Required: No license granted under any village
ordinance shall be assignable or transferable without permission of the board
of trustees, nor shall any such license authorize any person to do business or
act thereunder, but the person named therein, unless otherwise provided by
ordinance. (1988 Code § 3-1-4)
B.   Fee: Unless otherwise provided, the fee for transferring a license for any
purpose shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", to be paid to the
village treasurer for the use of the village. (1988 Code § 3-1-4; amd. 2009
Code)
C.   Duty Of New Licensee; Bond: Any person to whom any license may have been
issued under any ordinance of the village who, with the permission of the board
of trustees, assigns or transfers the same to any other person than the person
to whom such license was issued, or the assignee of such license, shall
surrender such license, and such assignee shall apply for a new license for the
unexpired term of the old license authorizing the assignee to carry on the same
business or occupation at such place as may be named in such new license;
provided, that in all cases, the party applying for such new license shall give
a bond with sureties, which shall conform as near as may be to the bond upon
which such surrendered license was issued. (1988 Code § 3-1-4)
3-1-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall be subject to the ordinances and regulations which may be in
force at the time of issuing thereof, or which may subsequently be made by the
board of trustees, and if any person so licensed shall violate any of the
provisions thereof, he shall be liable to be proceeded against for any fine or
penalty imposed thereby, and the license may be revoked at the discretion of
the village president. (1988 Code § 3-1-5)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: License Required; General Conditions And Restrictions
3-2-4: Application For License; Fee
3-2-5: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-2-6: Term Of License
3-2-7: Examination Of Applicants And Licensees
3-2-8: Classes Of Licenses
3-2-9: License Fees
3-2-10: Number Of Licenses
3-2-11: Renewal Of License
3-2-12: Closing Hours
3-2-13: Entry Powers Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-14: Records Kept
3-2-15: Transfer Of License
3-2-16: Change Of Location
3-2-17: Sanitary Conditions Of Premises
3-2-18: Health Conditions Of Employees
3-2-19: Restrictions; Serving And Drinking Alcoholic Liquor
3-2-20: Giving Away Prohibited; Tasting Excepted
3-2-21: Happy Hours Prohibited
3-2-22: Location Restrictions; Exemptions
3-2-23: Clear View Of Inside From Street Required; Exceptions
3-2-24: Prohibitions Regarding Minors
3-2-25: Preventing Violations By Minors
3-2-26: Prohibitions Regarding Other Persons
3-2-27: Gambling On Premises Prohibited
3-2-28: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-29: Refilling Original Packages Prohibited
3-2-30: Display Of License
3-2-31: State License Required
3-2-32: Solicitation For Prostitution And Purchase Of Liquor On Premises
Prohibited
3-2-33: Report By Corporate Licensee Of Internal Changes
3-2-34: Advertising
3-2-35: Consumption In Buildings Owned By Lake Bluff Park District
3-2-36: Consumption Prohibited In Public Places
3-2-37: Delivery Of Alcoholic Liquor
3-2-38: Liquor Service In Outdoor Service Areas
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume or less, or to liquids or solids containing
in excess of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume if dispensed
by a licensed pharmacy pursuant to a medical prescription.
BAR SERVICE AREA: Any public place, ancillary and accessory to, and within the
same building as, a restaurant, that is kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place within which alcoholic liquor is intended
to be consumed. For purposes of this chapter, "bar service area" shall include
all areas intended to be devoted to the storage, preparation, sale, service and
consumption of alcoholic liquor.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt or hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
BREWPUB: Premises that are subject to and maintain a valid brewpub license from
the state of Illinois pursuant to section 5/5-1(n) of the Illinois liquor
control act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1(n), as may be amended from
time to time, and that contain facilities used for the manufacture of beer for
the purposes of: a) making sales to importing distributors, distributors, and
to nonlicensees for use and consumption only; b) storing beer manufactured at
the premises, and c) conducting retail sales at the premises of beer
manufactured at the premises or another designated location.
CATERING ESTABLISHMENT: A business conducted by a person, firm, or corporation
for the purpose of providing food and service for a banquet or dinner which may
occur in a location other than premises leased, owned, and/or operated by the
catering establishment; the recipients of such food and/or service being
persons specially invited to such banquet or dinner rather than members of the
general public.
GROCERY STORE: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised, and held out to the public to be a retail store that primarily
conducts the retail sale of food and food items and the incidental retail sale
of other nonfood items.
IDENTIFICATION CARD: A written, printed or photostatic document issued by a
public officer of a federal, state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, in the performance of his or her official duties
and evidencing the age and identity of a person, including, without limitation,
a motor vehicle operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the
federal selective service act, or an identification card issued to a member of
the armed forces.
KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
LEGAL AGE: The minimum age designated by law of a person to whom it is lawful
to sell, give or deliver a particular type of alcoholic liquor.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by a
circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed guardian
or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 405/1-1 et seq.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm or corporation or partnership or club holding a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
MINOR: A person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
OUTDOOR SERVICE AREA: Any outdoor location that is adjacent and accessory to a
grocery store, restaurant or brewpub that is kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public as a place within which alcoholic liquor may be sold
and consumed.
PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
PRIVATE CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, operated
for recreational and social purposes on a private membership basis, which may
include the service of food and alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public to be a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. For purposes of this
chapter, "restaurant" shall include all screened in or otherwise enclosed areas
and rooms of such public place.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means whatsoever
and includes all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor,
agent, servant or employee.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of at least one
of his or her parents or a legal guardian.
VEHICLE OR PREMISES: Any privately owned and operated motor vehicle, conveyance
or vessel; any house or apartment; any hotel, motel or bed and breakfast room,
or any similar premises to which the general public is not normally admitted.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcoholic liquor" as defined in this
section. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992; amd. Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995; Ord. 96-9, 4-8-
1996; Ord. 2005-4, 2-28-2005; Ord. 2009-12, 4-13-2009; Ord. 2010-19, 8-23-2010;
Ord. 2011-6, 4-11-2011; Ord. 2014-23, 10-27-2014)
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
A.   Village President Serve As: The village president is hereby authorized to
be the local liquor control commissioner and shall be charged with the
administration of the liquor control act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and
of such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
passed from time to time by the village board of trustees.
B.   Assistants: The village president may appoint a person or persons to
assist him in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided
for such local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; GENERAL CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
A.   License Required: No person shall sell or offer for sale in the village
any alcoholic liquor without having a license, or in violation of the terms of
such license.
B.   Conditions And Restrictions: Every license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be subject to such conditions and restrictions of operation as the local
liquor control commissioner, with approval of a majority of the board of
trustees, may deem necessary and appropriate in connection with the public
health, safety, and welfare. Any such conditions and restrictions shall be
approved by a resolution duly adopted by the board of trustees, which
resolution shall be incorporated by reference into the license by the local
liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 96-23, 9-9-1996)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
A.   Contents Of Application: Applications for such licenses shall be made to
the local liquor control commissioner. Such applications shall be made in
writing and shall be signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or
affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statements:
1.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an individual;
in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors and if a majority of the stock of such
corporation, in interest, is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and
address of such person.
2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a naturalized
citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
3.   The character of business of the applicants; and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
4.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
5.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which is
to be operated under such license.
6.   A statement as to whether the applicant has made similar application for a
similar license, on premises other than described in the application, and the
disposition of such application.
7.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any manner or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of the state or ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
B.   Application Fee; Liability For Costs: The applicant shall be required to
pay to the village, at the time an application for a liquor license is
submitted, a nonrefundable application fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees". The application fee
shall not apply to applicants seeking the renewal of an existing license
pursuant to section
3-2-11 of this chapter. In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for all
costs incurred by the village in the course of processing the application,
including, without limitation, the cost of fingerprinting, federal bureau of
investigation charges, and legal fees. (Ord. 2010-5, 3-8-2010)
3-2-5: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to:
A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community in
which he resides.
B.   A person who is not a resident of the United States.
C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law.
D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is the keeper of
a house of ill fame.
E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
F.   A person whose license issued under the state act or this chapter has been
revoked for cause.
G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license issued
hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first application.
H.   A copartnership, unless all the members of such copartnership shall be
qualified to receive a license.
I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
village.
J.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent unless
said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
K.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought, or
does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to
be issued.
L.   Any law enforcing public official, village president, or any member of the
board of trustees, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor.
M.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
Unless otherwise stated herein to the contrary, each such license shall begin
on May 1 and shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance. (Ord. 92-
7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-7: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS AND LICENSEES:
A.   Rights Of Commissioner: The local liquor control commissioner shall have
the right:
1.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local
license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served as provided by statute.
2.   To examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee.
3.   To hear testimony and take proofs for his information in the performance
of his duties, and for such purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be
effective in any part of this state.
B.   Agent Of Commissioner: For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the local liquor control commissioner under this section, the local
liquor control commissioner may authorize his agent to act on his behalf, as
provided by statute. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-8: CLASSES OF LICENSES:
Every person engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the Village
shall possess a license of one of the following classes:
A.   Class A, which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, in the
original package and not for consumption on the premises where sold, and
limited alcoholic liquor tasting activities as provided in section
3-2-20 of this chapter.
B.   Class B, which shall authorize the retail sale of beer and/or wine, in the
original package and not for consumption on the premises where sold, and
limited winetasting activities as provided in section
3-2-20 of this chapter.
C.   Class C, which shall authorize the retail sale by conference centers of
alcoholic liquor by the drink for consumption:
   1.   On the premises of the conference center by conference center guests;
   2.   In the private and public rooms of the conference center for privately
sponsored parties, receptions, and similar gatherings where attendance is
limited to conference center guests or invited guests;
   3.   In the conference center restaurant; provided, however, that alcoholic
liquor shall only be consumed within the restaurant area in which it is sold,
and the sale and service of alcoholic liquor shall be incidental and
complementary to the sale and service of a complete meal, which meal shall be
served and eaten at a table in the restaurant area;
   4.   In a lounge (bar service) area that is accessory to a restaurant, with
or without the sale and service of a meal; provided, however, that:
      a.   Alcoholic liquor shall only be consumed within the lounge area;
      b.   The square footage of the lounge area shall not exceed two thousand
(2,000); and
      c.   The license shall only be issued to the owner or operator of the
restaurant to which the lounge area is accessory.
D.   Class D, which shall authorize the retail sale, by private clubs in their
“restaurants” as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter, of alcoholic liquor by the drink for consumption on the
premises by customers of the restaurant, and which shall also authorize the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor for privately sponsored parties, lunches,
dinners, receptions and similar gatherings where attendance is limited to
members or invited guests.
E.   Class L, special events license, which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by educational, political, civic, fraternal, religious or
other nonprofit organizations, at a picnic, outing, festival or other such
similar special event only for consumption on the premises or within the area
specifically designated in such license and shall in no event be valid for more
than forty eight (48) hours. Satisfactory evidence from the owner of the
premises shall be furnished showing the authorization to the applicant for the
use of said premises, including the sale of alcoholic liquor, for the period
for which the license is requested. No applicant may apply for more than four
(4) Class L licenses in any calendar year.
F.   1. Class P-1, which shall authorize for consumption on the premises where
sold, the retail sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises of property owned
(or controlled) and operated by or on behalf of a park district having a
population of less than five hundred thousand (500,000) inhabitants organized
under the provisions of the Park District Code of the State of Illinois.
   2.   Class P-2, which shall authorize for consumption on the premises where
sold, the retail sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises of property owned
(or controlled) by a park district having a population of less than five
hundred thousand (500,000) inhabitants organized under the provisions of the
Park District Code of the State of Illinois, and operated by an entity on the
park district’s behalf for park district purposes.
G.   Class R, which shall authorize the retail sale by restaurants of alcoholic
liquor; provided, that: 1) such alcoholic liquor shall be consumed only within
the restaurant premises in which it is sold; and 2) such a sale must be
incidental and complementary to the sale and service of a complete meal, served
and eaten at a table within the restaurant.
H.   Class S, which shall authorize the retail sale by restaurants of beer and
wine; provided, that: 1) beer and wine shall be consumed only within the
restaurant premises in which it is sold; and 2) such a sale must be incidental
and complementary to the sale and service of a complete meal, served and eaten
at a table within the restaurant. Class S licensees may serve beer and wine in
outdoor service area(s) approved by the Village.
I.   Class T, which shall authorize and allow the retail sale by businesses of
alcoholic beverages in original packages or containers not for consumption on
the premises where sold but packaged and made available to customers curbside
for pickup and by delivery.
J.   Class U, which shall authorize retail sale and service by restaurants of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, with or without the sale and
service of a meal, in either or both:
   1.   One (1) bar service area no larger than eight hundred (800) square feet
in area, provided that the licensee must serve food prepared on site incidental
to the retail sale of alcoholic liquor; and
   2.   Within outdoor service area(s) approved by the Village. In addition to
the bar service area permitted by subsection 3-2-8.J(1), a separate service
area no larger than one hundred twenty (120) square feet may be used to provide
sales and service in such outdoor service area(s).
K.   Class V, which shall authorize the retail sale and service by restaurants
of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises by the customers of the
restaurant, as follows:
   1.   In a restaurant dining area; provided that the sale is incidental and
complementary to the sale and service of a complete meal, served and eaten at a
table within the restaurant; and
   2.   In one (1) bar service area, with or without the sale and service of a
meal; provided that (i) the square footage of the bar service area shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the total square footage of the restaurant to which
it is accessory; and (ii) the only public access to the bar service area is
through the restaurant to which it is accessory; and
   3.   In outdoor service area(s) provided that the sale is incidental and
complementary to the sale and service of a complete meal, served and eaten at a
table in an outdoor service area approved of by the Village and accessory to
the restaurant.
L.   Caterer’s license:
   1.   Class W annual license, which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by caterers solely between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00)
A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight, in connection with, and as an
incidental part of, the catering of food for private events at a premises not
otherwise licensed for the retail sales of alcoholic liquor. A “private event”
shall be defined as an event not available to the general public except by
appointment or special invitation. A licensee with a Class W annual license
does not need a separate Class W license for each private event.
   2.   Class W event license, which shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by caterers solely between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00)
A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight, in connection with, and as an
incidental part of, the catering of food for a single private event at a
premises not otherwise licensed for the retail sales of alcoholic liquor. A
“private event” shall be defined as an event not available to the general
public except by appointment or special invitation. A Class W event license
shall only be valid for an event lasting no more than forty eight (48) hours.
No applicant may apply for more than four (4) Class W event licenses in any
calendar year.
M.   Class X, available only to a restaurant that is the holder of a valid
Class R, S, U, or V alcoholic beverage license pursuant to this section, which
shall authorize the retail sale by restaurants:(i) to patrons of the restaurant
of beer and wine in the original packages or containers and not for consumption
on the premises where sold; and (ii) of beer and wine by delivery; provided
that such sales, collectively, may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the
total retail sale and service of alcoholic beverages by the restaurant.
N.   Class Y licenses, which shall authorize the retail sale at a brewpub of:
(i) beer that is brewed by the licensee at the brewpub or at another designated
location for consumption on or off the premises of the brewpub, as well as (ii)
all other alcoholic liquor, including beer brewed by others, for consumption on
the premises of the brewpub incidental to the retail sale of the licensee’s own
beer. Class Y licensees must provide some service of food at the brewpub
incidental to the retail sale of beer or other alcoholic liquor but need not
operate as a restaurant. Class Y licensees may conduct limited tasting
activities on the premises as provided in section
3-2-20 of this chapter. Class Y licensees may serve alcoholic liquor in outdoor
service area(s) approved by the Village. Class Y licensees shall also be
authorized to conduct delivery of sales of beer.
O.   Class Z, available only to a business that is the holder of a valid Class
A or Class B liquor license pursuant to this section, which shall: (i)
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises
where sold, including within outdoor service area(s) approved by the Village if
the licensee has a Class A liquor license; or (ii) authorize the retail sale of
beer and wine only for consumption on the premises where sold, including within
outdoor service area(s) approved by the Village if the licensee has a Class B
liquor license.
P.   Class AA, civic special events license, which shall authorize the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor at Village designated civic special events only for
consumption on the event premises or within such other area within the event
premises as specifically designated in such license. The license shall be valid
only for the duration of the specified civic special event and shall be subject
to such conditions as the Liquor Commissioner or his or her designee may impose
regarding the conduct of the civic special event, including, without
limitation, that the licensee must provide the Village with written
documentation, in a form approved by the Village, that the licensee will
indemnify, hold harmless, defend, and insure the Village against any claims
arising out of or relating to the service of alcoholic liquor by the licensee
at the civic special event.
Q.   Class AB, tasting license, which shall allow a State licensed
manufacturer, non-resident dealer, foreign importer, importing distributor, or
distributor to conduct tastings or product samplings as provided by section
3-2-20 of this chapter at:
   1.   An establishment licensed by the Village for the retail sale of liquor
for consumption on the premises where sold;
   2.   An establishment licensed by the Village for the retail sale of liquor
not for consumption on the premises where sold; and,
   3.   At a Village designated civic special event, only for consumption on
the event premises or within such other area within the event premises as
specifically designated in the approval. The licensee must provide the Village
with a written commitment, in a form approved by the Village, that the licensee
will indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the Village against any claims
arising out of or relating to the service of liquor by the licensee at the
civic special event.
R.   Class AC, which shall authorize retail sale and service by restaurants:
   1.   Of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises incidental and
complementary to the sale and service of a complete meal, served and eaten at a
table:
      i.   Within the restaurant’s dining area; and
      ii.   Within an outdoor service area(s) approved by the Village;
   2.   Of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises with or without the
sale and service of a meal in: a single bar service area where both (i) the bar
service area does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total square footage of
the restaurant to which it is accessory; and (ii) the only public access to the
bar service area is through the restaurant to which it is accessory;
   3.   Of alcoholic liquor in the original package and not for consumption on
the premises where sold, and limited alcoholic liquor tasting activities as
provided in section 3-2-20 of this chapter; and
   4.   Of beer and wine by delivery.
S.    Class AD Bring-Your-Own which shall authorize the consumption of beer or
wine only, brought onto the premises of a restaurant by a patron 21 years of
age or older, for their personal consumption while being served a meal in the
establishment subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
1.   A licensee may provide corkscrews, bottle openers, glassware, ice,
disposal services, and similar items for its patrons, but the licensee and its
agents, and employees are prohibited from opening, serving, pouring, or storing
of any alcoholic liquor for its patrons.
2.   Licensees are prohibited from allowing any customer to take any opened
alcoholic liquor from the premises, except only a single wine bottle that has
been sealed in compliance with the requirements of 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor
Code.
3.   A licensee may not permit a customer to consume alcoholic liquor on the
premises between the hours of 1:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. each day of the week.
(Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992; amd. Ord. 95-30, 9-11-1995; Ord. 96-9, 4-8-1996; Ord.
2002-14, 9-23-2002; Ord. 2007-24, 12-11-2007; 2009 Code; Ord. 2010-5, 3-8-2010;
Ord. 2010-14, 6-28-2010; Ord. 2011-6, 4-11-2011; Ord. 2014-23, 10-27-2014; Ord.
2015-7, 5-11-2015; Ord. 2016-24, 9-26-2016; Ord. 2019-12, 4-22-2019; Ord. 2019-
14, 5-13-2019; Ord. 2020-12, 7-13-2020 Ord. 2020-17, 10-12-2020; Ord. 2022-8,
3-14-2022; Ord. 2022-32, 11-14-2022; Ord. 2023-3, 2-14-2023; Ord. 2023-18, 6-
26-2023)
3-2-9: LICENSE FEES:
A.   The annual license fees for liquor licenses shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this Code under the category "license fees".
B.   Fees for all annual liquor licenses that are issued on or after November 1
shall be prorated on a semiannual basis. (Ord. 2019-14, 5-13-2019; amd. Ord.
2020-12, 7-13-2020)
3-2-10: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The maximum number of alcoholic beverage licenses by classification thereof
available at any time for issuance shall be as follows:
Class Number
Class Number
A     2
AC    1
B     1
C     0
D     0
P-1   1
P-2   1
R     1
S     0
T     1
U     1
V     2
X     0
Y     1
Z     2
 
(Ord. 2019-21, 7-8-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-12, 7-13-2020; Ord. 2021-18, 8-9-2021;
Ord. 2022-8, 3-14-2022; Ord. 2022-18, 5-9-2022; Ord. 2022-32, 11-14-2022; Ord.
2023-3, 2-14-2023; Ord. 2023-11, 4-24-2023; Ord. 2023-18, 6-26-2023; Ord. 2025-
14, 4-28-2025)
3-2-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that he
is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for the purpose. In addition, the renewal
privilege herein provided shall not be construed as a vested right which shall
in any case prevent the Village President from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within his jurisdiction or examining the application for
renewal as provided in section
3-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-12: CLOSING HOURS:
No person shall:
A.   Off Premises Sales: Sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor in the
original package for consumption off the premises between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. each day of the week.
B.   On Premises Sales: Sell or offer for sale alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. each day of the week.
C.   Restaurants: Keep open for business or admit the public to any premises in
or upon which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours within which
the sale of such alcoholic liquor is prohibited; provided, that restaurant and
club establishments may be kept open during such hours but no alcoholic liquor
may be sold to or consumed by the public, employees or the membership during
such hours. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-13: ENTRY POWERS OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner hereby is given the power to enter or to
authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of the Liquor
Control Act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, or any rules or regulations
adopted by him or by the State Liquor Commission have been or are being
violated and at such time to examine the premises of said licensee in
connection therewith. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-14: RECORDS KEPT:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all such licenses issued by him. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-15: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A.   Personal Privilege: A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good
for not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this
chapter provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
being encumbered or hypothecated.
B.   Deceased Or Insolvent Licensee: Such license shall not descend by the laws
of the testate or intestate devolution. It shall cease upon the death of the
licensee; provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license,
but not longer than six (6) months, after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency
of such licensee. No refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees
paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating
under such license in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. (Ord.
92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-16: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A.   A liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
in the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the Village
President.
B.   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location
is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the Statutes of
the State and this Code and the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-
1992)
3-2-17: SANITARY CONDITIONS OF PREMISES:
All premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of such
liquor for sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be
kept in full compliance with this Code and the ordinances regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption, and those statutes, regulations and directions of all governmental
bodies having jurisdiction. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-18: HEALTH CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYEES:
A.   No person shall employ in any premises used for the sale of alcoholic
liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of any contagious
or infectious disease.
B.   No person afflicted with or who is a carrier of any such disease shall
work in or about any such premises or engage in any way in work on or about any
such premises. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-19: RESTRICTIONS; SERVING AND DRINKING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
A.   Compliance With Laws:
1.   No person shall serve or drink any alcoholic liquor in any restaurant,
dining room, lunchroom, bowling alley or other place of public resort in the
Village, other than one where the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is permitted under license and said service takes place during the
hours permitted by the license. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
2.   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner, proprietor or
person in charge of any tavern or other place in the Village where alcoholic
liquor is sold, served or delivered from the restrictions and requirements of
any other provision of this Code, any ordinance of the Village, or any State or
Federal laws or regulations. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
B.   Drinking On Public Ways: No person shall drink any alcoholic liquor in any
public street, alley, parkway, driveway or parking lot in the Village, unless
authorized by an appropriate license.
C.   Bringing Liquor Into Licensed Premises: No person shall consume or be in
possession of any alcoholic liquor on licensed premises other than such
premises where alcoholic liquor is sold and dispensed by the licensee. The
licensee or his agent shall have the authority to order the immediate removal
of any alcoholic liquor carried onto licensed premises in violation of this
subsection. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
D.   Restricted Areas: With regard to all premises for which a Class C, D, L,
P, R, S, U or V license has been issued pursuant to this chapter, consumption
of alcoholic liquor shall be restricted to designated serving areas on the
licensed premises and shall not take place in any other areas, parking lots, or
adjoining property. No person, and no licensee under this chapter, nor any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or employee of such
licensee, shall hand, offer, deliver, carry or pass off or out of the licensed
premises any alcoholic liquor, nor shall any such person cause or facilitate
any alcoholic liquor to be handed, offered, delivered, carried or passed off or
out of the licensed premises. (Ord. 96-23, 9-9-1996; amd. Ord. 2005-4, 2-28-
2005)
3-2-20: GIVING AWAY PROHIBITED; TASTING EXCEPTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to give away or otherwise dispense free of
charge, by the drink or in any other manner, within the Village, an alcoholic
beverage with the intent of promoting the sale of an alcoholic beverage;
provided, however, when approved in advance by the Local Liquor Commissioner,
upon application of a Class A, Class B, Class L, Class Y, Class AA, or Class AB
licensee, and subject to the terms and conditions as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may determine necessary, that Class A and Class L licensees may
give away alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises, and Class B licensees may
give away wine on the licensed premises, and Class Y licensees may give away
beer or wine on the licensed premises, and Class AA or AB licensees may give
away liquor in accordance with the conditions of their license, without charge,
in small and limited amounts for tasting purposes only. Up to three (3)
samples, consisting of no more than: a) one-fourth (1/4) ounce of distilled
spirits, b) one ounce of wine, or c) two (2) ounces of beer may be served to a
consumer in one day. (Ord. 2019-21, 7-8-2019)
3-2-21: HAPPY HOURS PROHIBITED:
A.   Schedule Of Prices: All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the
prices charged for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on
the licensed premises or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a multiuse
establishment which holds a valid retailer's license operates on its premises
more than one establishment at which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at
retail, a multiuse establishment shall maintain at each such establishment a
separate schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at that establishment.
B.   Prohibited Acts: No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee
shall:
1.   Serve two (2) or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one person
for consumption by that person, except selling or delivering wine by the bottle
or carafe;
2.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of drinks
of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at
private functions not open to the general public; (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3.   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any person
on any one day at a reduced price other than that charged other purchasers of
drinks on that day which such reduced price is a promotion to encourage
consumption of alcoholic liquor; (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
4.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or the size
of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the price
regularly charged for the drink on that day;
5.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest which
involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
6.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed premises,
any of the practices prohibited under subsections B1 through B5 of this
section.
C.   Activities Permitted: Nothing in subsection B of this section shall be
construed to prohibit a licensee from:
1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time.
2.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package.
3.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract between a
multiuse establishment and another group for the holding of any function,
meeting, convention or trade show.
4.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two (2) or more persons at one time.
5.   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole or in
part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not regularly
scheduled.
D.   Violation; License Suspension Or Revocation: A violation of this section
shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the retailer's license as
provided herein. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-22: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school; provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to clubs, restaurants, food shops or other places
where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business carried on, if
such place of business not exempt shall have been established for such purpose
prior to the effective date hereof; nor to the renewal of a license for the
sale of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any
church where such church has been established within such one hundred feet
(100') since the issuance of the original license. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-23: CLEAR VIEW OF INSIDE FROM STREET REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
A.   View Inside Premises: In premises in which the sale of liquor for
consumption on the premises is licensed, other than in restaurants, hotels, or
clubs, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises, not
inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of
such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no
booth, screen, partition or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting, shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises, and the
entire space used by the public must be so located that there shall be a full
view of the same from the street, road or sidewalk.
B.   Lighting: All rooms where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the
premises shall be continually lighted during business hours by natural or
artificial white lights so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible.
C.   Violation; License Revocation: In case the view into any such licensed
premises required by this section shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or
by him wilfully suffered to be obscured or obstructed, such license may be
revoked in the manner herein provided.
D.   Enforcement; Filing Of Plans: In order to enforce the provisions of this
section, the local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to require
the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as required in this section. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-24: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS:
A.   Acts Prohibited: Subject to the exceptions set forth in subsection B of
this section, it shall be unlawful:
1.   For any person to sell, give, deliver, dispense or furnish alcoholic
liquor to any minor.
2.   For any minor to purchase, obtain, receive, accept, have in his or her
possession or control, sell, give, deliver, mix, dispense, serve, furnish or
consume alcoholic liquor.
3.   For any minor to misrepresent his or her age to circumvent the provisions
of this chapter, including, without limitation, presenting or offering to any
person any identification card that is false, fraudulent, forged or not
actually his or her own.
4.   For any minor to possess or use any identification card that is false,
fraudulent, forged, or the identification card of another, or to obtain an
identification card by means of false information.
5.   For any person to sell, give, deliver or furnish to any minor any
identification card that is false, fraudulent, forged, or of another person.
6.   For any person to transfer, forge, alter or deface any identification
card.
7.   For any retail liquor dealer's licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to suffer, permit
or allow any minor to be or remain on such licensee's licensed premises, or in
any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to such licensed premises.
8.   For any owner of, or other person having control over, any vehicle or
premises to knowingly initiate, suffer, permit or allow one or more occupants,
invitees, visitors, guests, trespassers or other persons under the age of
twenty one (21) years to assemble or be assembled in such vehicle or premises
in possession of any alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
9.   For any person to rent or pay for any hotel, motel or bed and breakfast
room or facility from the proprietor or agent thereof for the purpose of or
with knowledge that such room or facility shall be used for the consumption of
alcoholic liquor by any minor.
10.   For any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor to knowingly
suffer, permit or allow such minor to violate any provision of this chapter.
B.   Exceptions:
1.   The possession, mixing, dispensing and serving or consumption of alcoholic
liquor by a minor in the performance of a bona fide religious service or
ceremony is not prohibited by this section.
2.   The possession, mixing, dispensing and serving or consumption of alcoholic
liquor by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of a parent or
legal guardian in the privacy of such parent's or legal guardian's residence is
not prohibited by this section; provided, however, that this exception shall
not extend to any other occupant, invitee, visitor or guest that is a minor.
3.   The possession and serving of alcoholic liquor by a minor as an employee
of any licensee under this chapter in such licensee's licensed premises is not
prohibited by this section; provided, however, that this exception shall not
extend to those persons under the age of nineteen (19) years, nor shall this
exception extend to the mixing or dispensing of alcoholic liquor or to
bartending by any minor.
4.   The possession and delivery of any alcoholic liquor in its original
package and not for consumption on the premises where sold by a minor as an
employee of any licensee under this chapter or pursuant to the order of his or
her parent or legal guardian is not prohibited by this section.
5.   The location or assembly of any minor in any retail premises licensed
under this chapter or in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to any
such licensed premises is not prohibited by this section if such person is
accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian; or if such licensed
premises derives its principal business from the sale or service of commodities
other than alcoholic liquor; or if such minor is an employee of any licensee
under this chapter in such licensee's licensed premises whose duties do not
include the mixing or dispensing of alcoholic liquor or bartending and, if
under the age of nineteen (19) years, whose duties do not include the handling
or serving of alcoholic liquors.
6.   The action or omission to act of any person at the express lawful, or
apparently lawful, direction of a law enforcement officer in the performance of
his or her official duties is not prohibited by this section.
C.   Presumptions Of Knowledge And Permission: For purposes of this chapter, a
person shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have
knowingly permitted a violation of this chapter if: 1) such person is present
within any vehicle or premises of which such person is the owner, lessee,
permittee, bailee, legal possessor or occupier thereof at the time that a
violation of the provisions of this chapter is occurring; and 2) such person
has not informed the Lake Bluff police department thereof.
D.   Reliance On Identification Card: Proof that any person demanded, was
shown, and reasonably relied upon an identification card evidencing: 1) the
identity of a person; and 2) that such person is of lawful age in any
transaction prohibited by this section, shall constitute an affirmative defense
in any criminal prosecution therefor, in any prosecution for a violation of
this section, or in any proceedings for the suspension or revocation of any
license or the imposition of any fine or penalty based thereon; provided,
however, that it shall not be an affirmative defense if such person accepted
the identification card knowing it to be false, fraudulent, forged or the
identification card of another person.
E.   Violation; License Revocation Or Suspension: In addition to all other
fines and penalties, the local liquor control commissioner may revoke or
suspend the retail liquor dealer's license for any violation of this section.
(Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
3-2-25: PREVENTING VIOLATIONS BY MINORS 1 :
A.   Warning Required: In any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is
sold or distributed pursuant to a village retail liquor dealer's license, there
shall be displayed at all times, in a prominent and conspicuous place, a
printed card supplied by the village clerk reading substantially as follows:
      WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER 21
      YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE OF UP TO $750.00 UNDER THE LAWS OF THE VILLAGE
OF LAKE BLUFF IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
(Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Identification Required: If any retail liquor dealer's licensee, or any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee,
believes or has reason to believe that the sale, delivery or giving of
alcoholic liquor to a person, or the employment, location or assembly of a
person in such licensee's licensed premises, is prohibited by section
3-2-24 of this chapter because of the age of such person, such licensee,
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee shall, before
making such sale, delivery or service and before allowing such person to remain
on such licensee's licensed premises, demand presentation of an identification
card. In addition, the licensee shall also demand a second form of positive
identification which confirms the authenticity of the first. For purposes of
preventing a violation of section
3-2-24 of this chapter, any such licensee, officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee may refuse to sell, deliver or give alcoholic
liquor to any person who is unable to produce a satisfactory identification
card, and may refuse to allow such person to remain on such licensee's licensed
premises.
C.   Violation; License Revocation Or Suspension: In addition to all other
fines and penalties, the local liquor control commissioner may revoke or
suspend the retail liquor dealer's license for any violation of this section.
(Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-8-2 of this code.
3-2-26: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING OTHER PERSONS:
No retail liquor dealer's licensee, nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, shall sell, give, deliver,
dispense or furnish alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person. (Ord. 95-42,
12-11-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
3-2-27: GAMBLING ON PREMISES PROHIBITED:
There shall be no card games or gambling allowed on any premises licensed to
sell alcoholic liquor, except for those which have been issued a permit from
the Illinois department of revenue. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-28: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The village president may suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause any liquor dealer's license for any violation of any provision
pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor, as provided in this chapter and in
the manner provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-5. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-
1992)
3-2-29: REFILLING ORIGINAL PACKAGES PROHIBITED:
A.   Refilling Prohibited: Except for containers used by class Y licensees for
the retail sale at a brewpub for off premises consumption of beer brewed at the
brewpub or other designated location, no person licensed under this chapter or
his employee or agent shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original
package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of
alcoholic liquor.
B.   Possession In Original Packages: No person shall have in his possession
for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor, except in original packages. (Ord. 2010-19, 8-23-2010)
3-2-30: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his liquor license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-31: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
No licensee under this chapter shall operate a liquor business without having
obtained a liquor license issued by the Illinois liquor control commission.
(Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-32: SOLICITATION FOR PROSTITUTION AND PURCHASE OF LIQUOR ON PREMISES
PROHIBITED:
No holder of a liquor license, his agent or employee, shall allow, permit or
suffer to remain on his premises any person who shall solicit for herself/
himself or for others for prostitution, or solicit any patron to purchase
alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-33: REPORT BY CORPORATE LICENSEE OF INTERNAL CHANGES:
All corporations licensed under this chapter shall report to the local liquor
control commissioner, within thirty (30) days, all internal changes in such
corporation pertaining to the persons whose names are indicated on the liquor
license application. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
3-2-34: ADVERTISING:
A.   Prohibited Advertising: It shall be unlawful for:
1.   Any holder of a retail liquor license of any class to maintain any
permanent sign or permanent advertising material visible from outside the
licensed premises which directs attention to specific products or brands of
alcoholic liquor, beer or wine. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
2.   Any holder of a class A, B, C, D, P, R, or S license to maintain more than
one sign or advertising material, either permanent or temporary, on any one
side of the licensed premises visible from outside the licensed premises which
directs attention to the service and availability of alcoholic liquor, beer or
wine within the licensed premises. (Ord. 93-17, 9-13-1993)
B.   Sign Regulations: A permitted sign or advertising material shall not
exceed a size of one square foot. Signs advertising specific products and
brands of alcoholic liquor, beer or wine maintained at licensed premises of the
type governed by this section are specifically prohibited. All signs or
advertising materials not prohibited by this section shall be erected and
maintained in conformity with sign ordinances of the village 1 . (Ord. 92-7, 4-
13-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 10 of this code.
3-2-35: CONSUMPTION IN BUILDINGS OWNED BY LAKE BLUFF PARK DISTRICT 1 :
A.   Authority To Sell: Pursuant to authority granted by the general assembly
of Illinois by public act 82-917, 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1205/8-19, the
board of commissioners of the Lake Bluff park district are authorized to sell
alcoholic liquors in buildings owned by the Lake Bluff park district to persons
attending events sponsored by civic, social or cultural groups or attending
private parties in said buildings which shall be permitted in conformity with
the terms and provisions of statute and the ordinances, rules and regulations
of the park district and in conformity with the applicable provisions contained
in this chapter.
B.   Conditions For Use Of Facilities: Unless the ordinances of the Lake Bluff
park district shall be hereinafter amended to prohibit the same, alcoholic
liquor may be consumed in facilities owned by the Lake Bluff park district upon
the satisfaction of the following conditions:
1.   Sale Of Liquor Prohibited: The sale or offering for sale of alcoholic
liquor by any person and/or group using the park district facilities except
pursuant to a special permit described below is expressly prohibited.
2.   Special Permit Required: All persons and/or groups proposing to exercise
the privileges granted in this section, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
for profit or not for profit, shall first apply for and obtain from the
director of parks and recreation of the park district a special permit to be
issued for each function on a single basis and shall strictly comply with the
terms and conditions thereof, as well as all policies, rules and regulations of
the park district from time to time in effect applicable to the use of the park
district facilities.
3.   Limitations: Any special permit issued shall specify any limitations on
the type of alcoholic liquor to be served, the hours the building may be so
utilized and any other special conditions imposed by the director of parks and
recreation. All such special permit holders and attendees at functions shall
strictly abide by the laws and municipal ordinances governing the use and
consumption of alcoholic liquors, including, without limitation, the
prohibitions against furnishing of alcohol to minors and intoxicated persons.
4.   Notification Of Police Department: Written notification of the intended
use of a park district building for the consumption of alcoholic liquors,
describing all conditions contained in said special permit, shall be given to
the village police department on the first day of the month in which the event
is to occur.
5.   Enforcement By Police Department: The village police department shall
enforce any and all terms and limitations contained in a special permit issued
by the director of parks and recreation in addition to all other applicable
regulations contained in this section. (Ord. 92-7, 4-13-1992)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 7-4-1 of this code.
3-2-36: CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
Except as otherwise explicitly provided in, and authorized pursuant to, section
3-2-35 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell, consume or
possess open containers of alcoholic liquor on any village property, or in any
village building, or on any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place in
the village, or in any place open to the public, including, without limitation,
parking lots; provided, however, that the sale, consumption and possession of
open containers of alcoholic liquor specifically authorized by a license issued
pursuant to this chapter, confined to the premises for which such license is
issued, and otherwise in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, is not
prohibited by this section. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
3-2-37: DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
Where a class of liquor license authorizes delivery of packaged liquor for off-
premises consumption, sales must be made in the original, unopened package.
(Ord. 2020-12, 7-13-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 2-14-2023)
3-2-38: LIQUOR SERVICE IN OUTDOOR SERVICE AREAS:
Where a class of liquor license authorizes liquor service to be conducted in a
outdoor service area accessory to the licensed premises, service in the outdoor
service area is subject to the following requirements:
A.   The sale and service of alcoholic liquor in the outdoor service area shall
be permitted only when the indoor area of the establishment is open and in no
case between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00)
A.M.
B.   If the outdoor service area is separated from pedestrian traffic on the
adjoining sidewalk by the use of a fence, planters, railing, or other barrier,
then such barrier must be at least three feet (3') in height and provide for
emergency egress from the outdoor service area sufficient to comply with all
applicable Life Safety Codes and regulations.
C.   No sale or service of alcoholic liquor shall be made from the outdoor
service area to any person on the adjacent sidewalk, parking area, or public
street.
D.   The outdoor service area shall be supervised by an employee of licensee at
all times while the outdoor service area is used by customers. (Ord. 2020-12,
7-13-2020)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Certificate Of Registration
3-3-3: License Fees
3-3-4: Religious Or Charitable Solicitations
3-3-5: Appeals
3-3-6: Exemption
3-3-7: Mobility Of Peddlers
3-3-8: Misrepresentation And Fraud By Licensee
3-3-9: Village Policy On Soliciting
3-3-10: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-3-11: Duty Of Solicitors
3-3-12: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-3-13: Time Limit On Soliciting And Peddling
3-3-14: Solicitations On Highways
3-3-15: Penalties
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
PEDDLER: Every person who shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange any
goods, wares, merchandise or other commodities, while traveling from residence
to residence on, along or upon the streets and sidewalks of the village.
REGISTERED PEDDLER OR SOLICITOR: Means and includes any person who has obtained
a valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which
certificate is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while
engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description whatever, for any
kind of consideration whatever; or
B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for applications or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publications; or
D.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any other
valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project. (1988 Code § 3-4-1)
3-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
A.   Application Required: Every person desiring to engage in soliciting or
peddling within the village is hereby required to make written application upon
a form provided by the office of the village administrator and filed with the
office of the village administrator.
B.   Contents Of Application: The applicant shall truthfully state in full the
information requested on the application, as follows:
1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence at
such address; also business address, if other than residence address; also
social security number.
2.   Address of place of residence during the preceding three (3) years, if
other than present address.
3.   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of spouse.
4.   Physical description of the applicant.
5.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association by whom
the applicant is employed or whom he or she represents; and the length of time
of such employment or representation.
6.   Name and address of each employer during the preceding three (3) years, if
other than the present employer.
7.   Description of the subject matter of the soliciting in which the applicant
will engage or description of the commodities or articles of merchandise in
which the peddler intends to deal.
8.   Period of time for which the certificate is requested.
9.   The date, or approximate date, of the most recent previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any.
10.   Statement whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this chapter has ever been revoked.
11.   Statement whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any provision of this chapter, or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting.
12.   Statement whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, or
under the laws of the United States.
13.   Such additional information as the village may deem necessary to process
the application.
C.   Statements Under Oath: All statements made by the applicant under the
application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
D.   Record Of Applications: The office of the village administrator shall
cause to be kept in his office an accurate record of every application received
and acted upon, together with all information and data pertaining thereto, and
all certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this chapter
and of the denial of application. Applications for certificates shall be
numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any
renewal thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the
application upon which it was issued.
E.   Ineligibility For Certificate: No certificate of registration shall be
issued to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, or under the laws of the
United States, within five (5) years of the date of application; nor to any
person who has been convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, nor to any person whose certificate of registration issued hereunder
has previously been revoked as herein provided.
F.   Acceptance Or Denial Of Application: The office of the village
administrator, after consideration of the application and all information
obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein required, or if the
issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall be made
by the office of the village administrator upon the application of the denial
of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the
certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith. If the office of the
village administrator fails to provide the applicant with a decision within
five (5) working days of the date of application, the application shall be
deemed to have been accepted.
G.   Contents Of Certificate: The certificate of registration shall state the
expiration date thereof.
H.   License Card:
1.   Issuance: If the character, qualifications and record of the applicant are
found to be in proper order, the office of the village administrator shall then
issue a license card to the applicant, signed by the village administrator and
bearing the applicant's photograph similar to the one on file in the office of
the village administrator.
2.   Display Of Card: Such license card, when issued, shall be worn by the
solicitor and shall be visible at all times, and such solicitor shall exhibit
the same at the request of any police officer or any citizen of the village and
shall exhibit such license card and properly identify himself upon making any
solicitation of a prospective purchaser. Upon the conclusion of his day's work,
the solicitor shall deposit his license card with the office of the village
administrator and call for the same the following morning before commencing his
day's work.
I.   Revocation Of Certificate: Any certificate of registration issued
hereunder shall be revoked by the office of the village administrator if the
holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, or has made a false material statement in the application, or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of
registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon such revocation,
written notice thereof shall be given by the office of the village
administrator to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his residence address as set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void. (1988 Code § 3-4-2)
3-3-3: LICENSE FEES:
A.   Established; Payment: The fees for peddlers' or solicitors' licenses shall
be paid to the village treasurer for the use of the village at the time the
application for a license shall be filed, and the license fees for each peddler
or solicitor shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", for one year or any
portion thereof.
B.   Refunds: Should the application for any license be denied, the fee
theretofore deposited shall be refunded to the applicant. (1988 Code § 3-4-3;
amd. 2009 Code)
3-3-4: RELIGIOUS OR CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS:
   A.   Definition: "Religious or charitable solicitations" shall mean the
request, by a person on sidewalks and at residences within the village,
directly or indirectly, of money, credit, property, financial assistance or
other thing of value on the plea or representation that such money, credit,
property, financial assistance or other thing of value will be used for a
religious or charitable purpose as those purposes are defined herein. These
words shall also mean and include the following methods of securing money,
credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or
representation that it will be used for a religious or charitable purpose as
herein defined:
      1.   Any oral or written request or exchange of religious literature for
money or other thing of value.
      2.   The distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or publication.
      3.   The public making of any announcement concerning an appeal,
assemblage, athletic or sports event, bazaar, benefit, campaign, contest,
dance, drive, entertainment, exhibition, exposition, party, performance,
picnic, sale or social gathering to be held within the village, which the
public is requested to patronize or to which the public is requested to make a
contribution for any religious or charitable purpose connected therewith.
      4.   The sale of, offer or attempt to sell, any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, chance, coupon, device, magazine, membership,
merchandise, subscription, ticket or other thing in connection with which any
appeal is made for any religious or charitable purpose or where the name of any
religious or charitable person is used or referred to in any such appeal as an
inducement or reason for making any such sale, or when or where, in connection
with any such sale, any statement is made that the whole or any part of the
proceeds from any such sale will go or be donated to any religious or
charitable purpose. (1988 Code § 3-4-4)
   B.   Waiver Of License Fee: On written request, the Village Administrator
may, waive license fees for non-profit, religious or charitable solicitors and
may impose additional restrictions and conditions on any permit for which the
fee has been waived. (1988 Code § 3-4-5; amd. Ord. 2024-18, 9-9-2024)
3-3-5: APPEALS:
In the event any applicant shall be refused a license by the office of the
village administrator, or shall feel otherwise aggrieved, he shall have the
right to appeal from the decision of the office of the village administrator to
the board of trustees, which board shall have the power to reverse or otherwise
modify the decision of the office of the village administrator. Such appeal
shall be in writing, addressed to the chairman or the president and board of
trustees setting forth in detail the grounds of such appeal. (1988 Code § 3-4-
6)
3-3-6: EXEMPTION:
This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to deprive any person of any
right secured unto him by the constitutions of the state or of the United
States. Any person applying for a license hereunder or who shall be required by
the provisions of this chapter to make such application, and who shall claim
exemption from the payment of the license fees required hereunder by virtue of
any such constitutional right may apply to the office of the village
administrator for the waiver or remission of such license fee. The office of
the village administrator may waive or remit any such license fee when the
infringement of any right secured by the constitution of the state of Illinois
or of the United States of America shall be established to his satisfaction.
This section shall not be construed, however, to exempt any person from the
requirements of section
3-3-2 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3-4-7)
3-3-7: MOBILITY OF PEDDLERS:
All peddlers must keep moving from place to place except when in the act of
showing foods or selling the goods to customers. (1988 Code § 3-4-8)
3-3-8: MISREPRESENTATION AND FRAUD BY LICENSEE:
All licensed peddlers and solicitors shall not engage in any fraud,
misrepresentation or imposition, while acting as a peddler, and shall offer for
sale, barter or exchange only those goods, wares or merchandise specified in
the license. (1988 Code § 3-4-9)
3-3-9: VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the corporate authorities of the
village that the occupant or occupants of the residences in the village shall
make the determination of whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited
to their respective residence. (1988 Code § 3-4-10)
3-3-10: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
   A.   Compliance By Solicitor: Every person desiring to secure the protection
intended to be provided by the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained
in this chapter, shall comply with the directions set forth in this section.
   B.   Specifications: Notice of the determination by the occupant or the
refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be given in the
manner following:
      1.   A weatherproof card or decal, at least three inches by four inches
(3" x 4") (8 cm x 10 cm) in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main
entrance door to the residence, indicating the determination by the occupant,
containing the applicable words, as follows:
            NO SOLICITORS INVITED
            or
            NO SOLICITORS
      2.   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") (8 mm) in
height.
   C.   Card Sufficient Notice: Such card so exhibited shall constitute
sufficient notice to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the
residence of the information contained thereon. (1988 Code § 3-4-11)
3-3-11: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Compliance With Notice: It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon
going onto any premises in the village upon which a "residence", as defined in
section
3-3-1 of this chapter, is located, to first determine whether the notice
provided for in this chapter, if any is attached, and to further be governed by
the statement contained on the notice. If the notice states "No Solicitors
Invited" or "No Solicitors", then the solicitor, whether registered or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   B.   Depart Upon Request: Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any
residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises when requested to do so by the occupant. (1988 Code § 3-4-12)
3-3-12: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared unlawful and a trespass for any person to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound in
any manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in "soliciting", as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code § 3-4-13)
3-3-13: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
It is hereby declared unlawful and a nuisance for any person, whether or not
registered under this chapter, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell
upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any
door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the
attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting", as defined in
section
3-3-1 of this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., or after seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. of any weekday, Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or a
state or national holiday. (1988 Code § 3-4-14)
3-3-14: SOLICITATIONS ON HIGHWAYS:
A.   Prohibitions:
1.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any vehicle 1 .
2.   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
3.   No person shall stand on a highway within the corporate limits of the
village for the purpose of soliciting contributions from the occupant of any
vehicle, except as hereinafter provided. (1988 Code § 3-4-15)
B.   Permit, Conditions And Requirements: The village administrator may grant a
permit to solicit charitable contributions on highways, subject to the
following provisions: (1988 Code § 3-4-15; amd. 2009 Code)
1.   Before the village clerk may issue any permit hereunder, the organization
seeking such permit shall be required to set forth the following:
a.   The name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the persons who manage such organization and who will
oversee the activity for which the permit is requested.
b.   The exact use for which the permit is requested.
c.   The date and times for which such permit is requested.
d.   The locations of the intersections within the village for which such
permit is requested.
e.   The number of solicitors expected.
2.   In addition, the soliciting agency shall provide evidence that:
a.   It is registered with the attorney general as a charitable organization as
provided by an act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor 2 , approved July 26, 1963, as subsequently amended; and
b.   The soliciting agency must be engaged in statewide fundraising activity;
and
c.   The soliciting agency must agree, in writing, to be liable for any
injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which are causally
related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent.
C.   Regulations:
1.   Such solicitation shall be allowed only at intersections where all traffic
is required to come to a full stop and shall be limited to daylight hours only.
Solicitation shall not interfere with traffic in any way or impede or slow the
flow of traffic.
2.   All persons engaged in the act of solicitation, as herein described, shall
be sixteen (16) years of age or older and shall be required to wear a high
visibility vest.
3.   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a highway for the purpose
of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to
be parked on a highway.
D.   Liability Insurance: In addition to the above requirements, the soliciting
agency shall present to the village clerk written evidence that it has obtained
insurance providing coverage for bodily injury liability, as well as property
damage liability, in the amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
for any individual and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for any
occurrence, and said evidence shall name the village as an additional insured.
(1988 Code § 3-4-15)
E.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the terms and provisions of this
section or who unnecessarily hinders, obstructs, delays or attempts to hinder,
obstruct or delay any person lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any
street or thoroughfare within the village shall be guilty of a violation of
this section and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the maximum provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 3-4-15; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-6-2C of this code.
2 1. 225 ILCS 560/0.01 et seq.
3-3-15: PENALTIES:
A.   Violators of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each day or part of a day on which
such violation occurs shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
B.   Any person, while acting as a solicitor, who shall be guilty of any fraud,
cheating, misrepresentation, or imposition, or who shall solicit orders,
subscriptions or applications, or who shall offer for sale by sample, or by
description on approval, for subsequent acceptance, or for future delivery, at
retail, any publications, books, pictures, photographs, goods, wares,
merchandise or services, other than stated in the license issued to such
person, shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense. (1988 Code § 3-4-16; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Fees
3-4-3: Classes of License
3-4-4: Application for License; Issuance
3-4-5: Operations Of Scavengers
3-4-6: Required Reports
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this Chapter have the same meaning attributed to them in
Title 4, Chapter 2 of this Code (“Municipal Waste and Recycling Regulations”).
(Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
A.   Except as provided in Section 3-4-2.B, no person or legal entity may
engage in the business of scavenger or may provide any scavenger services
within the corporate limits of the Village except upon issuance by the Village
of a valid scavenger license pursuant to the procedures and requirements of
this Chapter. All scavenger licensees must comply with the regulations and
restrictions set forth in this Chapter.
B.   Exception for Specialized Services: A person or legal entity that
exclusively provides specialized services within the corporate limits of the
Village is not required to obtain a license.
C.   The annual fee for the scavenger license classes provided in this Chapter
shall be at the rate set forth in Section 1-12-3. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021;
amd. Ord. 2022-34, 11-14-2022)
3-4-3: CLASSES OF LICENSE:
A.   Residential Franchise License (1). The Village will issue no more than one
scavenger license authorizing the collection of scavenger materials from
residential customers. The residential franchise license may only be issued to
the scavenger with whom the Village Board, by resolution duly adopted, has
entered into a residential franchise agreement.
B.   Commercial Franchise License (1). The Village will issue no more than one
scavenger license authorizing the collection of scavenger materials from
commercial customers. The commercial franchise license may only be issued to
the scavenger with whom the Village Board, by resolution duly adopted, has
entered into a commercial franchise Agreement.
C.   Exempt Service License (Unlimited). An unlimited number of licenses may be
issued to authorize the collection of scavenger materials from commercial
customer that are exempt from franchise service pursuant to Section
4-2-2(G). A scavenger must provide proof that it has entered into a contractual
agreement with the owner or occupant of an exempt property to provide scavenger
services in order to receive an exempt service license, and, after the
Village’s exclusive commercial franchise takes effect on November 1, 2022 as
provided by Section
4-2-2(D), may only serve exempt properties under this license. It is the duty
of the scavenger holding an exempt service license to verify that each customer
maintains a current exemption during the provision of service. Prior to the
effective date of the Village’s commercial franchise, exempt service licensees
may serve any commercial customers in the Village pursuant to a valid contract.
(Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
A.   Application Required; Contents. Every application for a scavenger license
must be submitted on a form provided by the Village Administrator, shall be
verified by the applicant, and shall contain at least the following
information:
1.   The name and address of the applicant and of all directors, partners,
registered agents, and shareholders of the applicant business.
2.   The location of the applicant’s main office and garage or fleet yard;
3.   A copy of any licenses or permits required by the State of Illinois or any
other regulatory agency that licenses or permits waste collection and disposal;
4.   The collection options to be offered by the applicant, as well as the
location(s) and the manner of final disposal of each class of scavenger
materials to be collected;
5.   The number and kind of vehicles to be used by the applicant in collection,
transportation and disposal of scavenger materials from customers within the
Village, as well as the year, make, model, and registration number of each
individual vehicle;
6.   A policy or certificate of insurance, issued by a company acceptable to
the Village, demonstrating that the applicant has procured all insurance
required by pursuant to this Chapter for the full term of the license, and
providing that such insurance may not be cancelled except upon ten days prior
written notice to the Village Administrator.
7.   A hold harmless agreement providing the indemnity required by this Chapter
in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney.
B.   Approval of Application. The Village Administrator or his or her deputy
shall approve the application and cause the requested license to be issued upon
payment of the annual fee and upon finding that:
1.   The applicant is not in default to the Village;
2.   The applicant has conducted its business in accordance with the ordinances
and regulations of the Village;
3.   The equipment used in the applicant’s business meets the requirements of
the ordinances and regulations of the Village;
4.   That the issuance of the license is in the best interests of the Village
and that the quality of service to be rendered will serve the public health,
safety and welfare; and
5.   That all information, insurance, certificates, and agreements required by
this Chapter have been provided and approved.
C.   Change of Information. Any change in the information required to be
included in the license application shall be filed with the Village no later
than ten days after a change occurs. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
3-4-5: OPERATIONS OF SCAVENGERS:
In addition to all other duties and obligations imposed by this Code upon
scavengers, every scavenger license will include the following duties and
obligations:
A.   Equipment.
1.   Each licensee must collect all scavenger materials in fully enclosed,
leak-proof trucks.
2.   Open body trucks, dump trucks, and similar equipment may be used only for
special collections of large bulky items such as discarded furniture, fixtures,
and household appliances or loads consisting of other dry scavenger materials
provided such loads are completely protected and securely covered by tarpaulins
or other such covers in such a manner as to prevent such scavenger materials
from being spilled or scattered.
3.   All truck bodies must be maintained in good repair and clean condition and
must be completely emptied at the end of each day of use and flushed thoroughly
at the end of each day of use, weather permitting.
B.   Disposal. Every day, Licensees will transport all scavenger materials
collected for disposal to designated and approved disposal facilities out of
the Village, except as may otherwise be provided in a Franchise, and shall
deposit same at a proper lawful site designated and maintained for such purpose
under the laws of the State of Illinois.
C.   Insurance. Each licensee must obtain and maintain, at a minimum, the
following insurance coverages at all times that they are conducting scavenging
services within the Village:
1.   Workers’ Compensation Insurance with a company authorized under the laws
of the State of Illinois a policy to protect itself against liability under the
Workers’ Compensation & Occupation Diseases Statutes of the State of Illinois;
2.   Automobile Liability Insurance under a comprehensive policy to insure each
Vehicle to which the license applies with limits of not less than $1,000,000.00
each person and $1,000,000.00 each accident bodily injury liability and
$1,000,000.00 each accident for property damage liability;
3.   General Liability under a comprehensive liability policy for its
operations other than vehicular operations with limits of at least
$1,000,000.00 each person and $1,000,000.00 each accident bodily injury
liability, $1,000,000.00 each accident for property damage liability; and
4.   Any additional insurance requirements set forth in a franchise agreement
with the Village.
D.   Indemnification. As a condition of the issuance of a scavenger license,
each licensee will indemnify and save harmless the Village against any and all
damages to property or injury to or death of any person or persons, including
property and employees, agents, or invitees of the Village, and shall defend,
indemnify and save harmless the Village from any and all claims, demands,
suits, actions, or proceedings of any kind or nature, including Workers’
Compensation claims, or by anyone whatsoever, in any way resulting from or
arising out of the licensee’s collection of scavenger materials from Village
customers in connection with the license issued pursuant to this Code,
including operations of sub-contractors and actions or omissions of employees
or agents of the licensee or its sub-contractors. Without limitation of the
foregoing, each licensee shall also indemnify and save harmless the Village to
the extent required pursuant to any Franchise.
E.   Care and Performance. Each licensee shall undertake to perform all
collection and disposal services rendered hereunder in a neat, orderly and
efficient manner, to use care and diligence in the performance of its services,
and to provide neat, orderly and courteous employees and personnel on its
crews.
F.   Collection of Recyclable Materials Required. Every scavenger shall offer
collection of recyclable materials to each of its customers. Recyclable
materials collected by a scavenger shall not be deposited into a landfill or
incinerator unless all reasonable efforts have been made by the hauler to
recycle the material.
G.   Compliance with the Requirements of Law. Each licensee shall conduct its
activities within the Village in full compliance with all applicable statutes,
laws, ordinances, and regulations. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
3-4-6: REQUIRED REPORTS:
Each scavenger that receives a license shall, upon the written request of the
Village Administrator, make available the following reports to the Village:
A.   The total weight of all municipal waste collected in the Village by the
scavenger;
B.   The total weight of all recyclable materials collected in the Village by
the scavenger;
C.   The total weight of each category or class of recyclable materials
collected in the Village by the scavenger;
D.   The total volume of all organic materials collected in the Village by the
scavenger; and,
E.   The names, street addresses, and class of service received (including
types of materials collected, container size, and service frequency) for each
of the scavenger’s customers.
The Village Administrator may not request the reports described in this Section
more frequently than once in any three-month period. In addition to any
penalties provided for violating this Chapter, if the reports required by this
Section are not submitted in a timely manner, or if the information provided in
such reports is incomplete, the Village may withhold the responsible
Scavenger’s license until the report is submitted and/or made complete. (Ord.
2021-14, 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 5
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required; Definition
3-5-2: Application For License; Issuance
3-5-3: License Fees And Term
3-5-4: Insurance Required; Compliance With State Law
3-5-5: Rates And Charges; Taximeter
3-5-6: Payment Of Fare; Transporting Passengers
3-5-7: Vehicle Requirements; Inspections
3-5-8: Conduct Of Drivers
3-5-9: Revocation Of License
3-5-10: Penalty
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; DEFINITION:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a taxicab business or to operate a
public passenger vehicle for hire without having first obtained a license
therefor as herein provided. "Taxicab" is defined to include a livery or
limousine service. (1988 Code § 3-7-1)
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
A.   Contents Of Application: Applications for such licenses shall be made in
writing to the office of the village clerk. Each application shall state
thereon the full name, age, residence address and place of birth of the
applicant, whether or not the applicant is a citizen of the United States, and
the occupation or business of the applicant for the past five (5) years with
names and addresses of employers. The applicant shall obtain and attach to his
application on forms to be provided by the office of the village clerk,
affidavits of his good character from two (2) reputable persons not related to
him by blood or marriage, who have known the applicant personally and observed
his conduct during at least one year next preceding the date of the
application.
B.   Vehicle Information: The application shall also set forth the class of
vehicle intended to be operated, the length of time the vehicle has been in
use, the number of persons it is capable of carrying, the motor power thereof
and the most recent license number issued therefor by the state.
C.   Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License: Every application shall
be referred by the village clerk to the office of the village administrator who
shall investigate the statements contained therein and the fitness of the
applicant to conduct the business for which the license is requested and shall,
within thirty (30) days after such application is referred, make a report to
the village president on such application. The village president shall then
direct the village clerk to issue the license to such persons as shall comply
in all respects with the provisions of this chapter and as the village
president, in his discretion, shall deem suitable and proper persons to be so
licensed. (1988 Code § 3-7-2)
3-5-3: LICENSE FEES AND TERM:
A.   Taxicab Service: The annual license fee for a public passenger vehicle
(taxicab) license shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", for each company
engaged in such business. Such license fee shall be in addition to any fees or
licenses heretofore established. All licenses issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be for a term not to exceed one year commencing May 1 in
each year and shall expire on April 30 in the following year. In the case of a
license issued on or after November 1 in each year, one-half (1/2) of the above
fee shall be paid.
B.   Livery Service: The annual license fee for a livery service license shall
be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", for each company
engaged in such business. Such license fee shall be in addition to any fees or
licenses heretofore established. All licenses issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be for a term not to exceed one year commencing May 1 in
each year and shall expire on April 30 in the following year. In the case of
licenses issued on or after November 1 in each year, one-half (1/2) of the
above fee shall be paid. "Livery", as used herein, shall include all public
passenger vehicles (taxicabs) with a capacity of seven (7) or more adult
individuals including the driver thereof, and must comply with all of the
provisions of ordinances applicable to public passenger vehicles (taxicabs).
(Ord. 89-16, 3-20-1989; amd. 2009 Code)
3-5-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
A.   Insurance Requirements: It shall be unlawful to conduct such a business or
so operate a public passenger vehicle, and no license therefor shall be issued,
until such applicant shall cause to be issued and kept in full force and effect
a policy of insurance in a solvent and responsible company authorized to do
business in the state insuring such applicant against liability for any injury
to, death of, or damage to the property of any person resulting from the
negligence of such applicant or his agent in the operation of such vehicle.
Said policy of insurance shall insure and bond such applicant as provided in
the amount established by statutes of the state, but in no event less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for each accident or less than three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for death or injury to any one person or
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for death or personal injury of
more than one person in a single accident. Said policy shall further indemnify
and hold harmless the village, its officers and employees from any liability,
and a copy of such policy shall be delivered to the village. Said insurance
policy shall provide that the insurance carrier or surety on any bond may not
withdraw from such bond or cancel said insurance until after serving ten (10)
days' previous notice in writing upon the village by registered mail. Whenever
any such policy shall be so canceled or bond withdrawn, said applicant shall
furnish a new policy of insurance or bond in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter before continuing to exercise any of the authority granted by this
chapter.
B.   Certificate Of Compliance: All applicants applying for a license shall, at
the time the license is issued, deposit with the village clerk a certificate
from the secretary of state of compliance with statutory requirements of the
state for the operation of a taxicab. (1988 Code § 3-7-4)
3-5-5: RATES AND CHARGES; TAXIMETER:
A.   Schedule Of Rates; Posting Required: Every person licensed to operate
taxicabs shall file a schedule of the rates and charges for such taxicabs with
the village clerk from time to time and within five (5) days of any change or
amendments thereto. The taxicabs shall also have affixed thereon inside or
outside of each cab and in a conspicuous place where it may be easily and
conveniently read by any passenger, a card upon which shall be printed in plain
legible type the rates of fare. (1988 Code § 3-7-5)
B.   Taximeters: Every taxicab licensed to operate in the village shall be
equipped with an accurate and dependable taximeter designed or intended to
measure the distance traveled, register the time the vehicle is waiting, and
record the charge of fare therefor. The taximeter must be placed so as to be
readily visible to passengers and shall be maintained in good operating
condition. The taximeter shall be inspected and sealed by a representative of
the police department on complaint. (1988 Code § 3-7-5; amd. 2009 Code)
C.   Receipt: Any passenger paying a fare shall be entitled to a receipt
showing the amount paid, if requested by the passenger at the time of payment.
(1988 Code § 3-7-5)
3-5-6: PAYMENT OF FARE; TRANSPORTING PASSENGERS:
Every driver of a public passenger vehicle shall have the right to demand
payment of the fare in advance and may refuse employment unless so prepaid, but
no driver of a public passenger vehicle shall otherwise refuse or neglect to
convey any orderly person or persons upon request anywhere in the village
unless previously engaged or unable to do so. No driver of a taxicab shall
carry any other person than the passenger first employing such vehicle without
the consent of the passenger. (1988 Code § 3-7-6)
3-5-7: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTIONS:
All vehicles used for taxicabs or for the conveyance of passengers for hire
must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and must be properly equipped
with brakes, lights, warning signals and such other devices or items of safety
as required by the state. (1988 Code § 3-7-5; amd. 2009 Code)
3-5-8: CONDUCT OF DRIVERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person driving a taxicab or public passenger
vehicle to act in other than a proper manner at all times while so occupied or
while in charge of a vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to shout
to prospective passengers or to drivers or operators of other vehicles, or to
be guilty of using profane or boisterous language. (1988 Code § 3-7-8)
3-5-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
village president for a violation of any provision hereof or upon proof
satisfactory to the village president that the business of the licensee was
conducted in a manner detrimental to the public safety, health or morals. Such
revocation may be in addition to the imposition of a fine or other penalty for
a violation of any provision of this chapter, and shall be no defense to a
prosecution for such violation. (1988 Code § 3-7-9)
3-5-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1988
Code § 3-7-10; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
GASOLINE STATIONS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License Required
3-6-3: Application For License; Plans And Specifications
3-6-4: Consent Of Landowner Required
3-6-5: Site Inspections; License Fee
3-6-6: Term Of License
3-6-7: No Smoking Signs
3-6-8: Revocation Of License
3-6-9: Effect On Building Requirements
3-6-10: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
GASOLINE STATION: Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place
within the village where containers or tanks, either portable or stationary,
and containing alcohol, gasoline, kerosene, ethyl gasoline or other vehicular
fuels and lubricants, having a flashpoint below one hundred sixty five degrees
Fahrenheit (165°F), are kept or located for the purpose of selling, offering
for sale or distributing any such liquids from such containers or tanks;
provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
place where such inflammable liquids are kept or sold for medicinal or
household purposes only. The term "gasoline station" shall also exclude any
facility maintained by the village for the purpose of servicing village owned
vehicles.
STREET: Means and includes such highways as have been dedicated by either
common law or statutory dedication as public streets and are actually in use as
such, and shall not be construed to include or mean service highways which are
commonly known as alleys. (1988 Code § 3-8-1)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall erect or alter any building or structure or install any tank,
vessel or other container in or upon any premises in the village to use,
operate and maintain the same as a gasoline station, nor shall any person
operate or maintain any of the existing gasoline stations in the village,
without first having obtained a license therefor. Gasoline stations with self-
service must also offer full service to its customers. (1988 Code § 3-8-2)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Applications for licenses shall be made to the village clerk, in writing, over
the signature of the owner or his agent, on printed blanks to be furnished by
the village. Every application shall be accompanied by complete plans and
specifications, signed by the owner, which shall be in conformity with the Lake
Bluff building code (title 9, chapter 2 of this code). If such plans provide
only for the installation of a tank, vessel or other container, the location,
the space desired to be used, the length, breadth and depth, together with the
measurement in feet from the surface of the ground to the top of such tank, its
connections, fittings, openings and safety appliances, shall be shown therein.
All plans shall be subject to review by the village fire chief. (1988 Code § 3-
8-3)
3-6-4: CONSENT OF LANDOWNER REQUIRED:
No gasoline station shall be constructed, operated or maintained in the village
unless there is first obtained the written consent of the owners of a majority
of the land, measured by frontage along the public streets in the village,
within the squared area, the center of which shall be the center of the
proposed location, and the sides of which shall be one thousand feet (1,000')
long and at right angles to and parallel with the boundary of the street upon
which such gasoline station location abuts. (1988 Code § 3-8-4)
3-6-5: SITE INSPECTIONS; LICENSE FEE:
A.   Initial Inspection; Fee: Before issuing such license, the building
commissioner shall inspect or cause to be inspected the site of such proposed
gasoline station, and if the same is satisfactory and such use thereof is
permitted by the ordinances of the village pertaining thereto, he shall so
certify to the village clerk, and thereupon, the applicant shall pay to the
village clerk a license fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees". The fee shall be paid
prior to the issuance of such license and shall cover the cost of inspection
thereof. (1988 Code § 3-8-5; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Other Inspections: No tank, container or other vessel located in or upon
such site shall be covered over or used until the installation, material and
workmanship have been finally inspected, approved and certified by the building
commissioner. All such facilities shall be subject to inspection by the village
fire chief at any time during business operations. (1988 Code § 3-8-5)
3-6-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on April
30 following the date of issuance. If, at the time of the application for a
license under the provisions of this chapter, six (6) months or more have
expired, the applicant shall be required to pay one-half (1/2) of such license
fee. (1988 Code § 3-8-6)
3-6-7: NO SMOKING SIGNS:
The owner, occupant or lessee of any gasoline station shall install and
maintain signs worded "No Smoking" in such numbers and locations as the fire
chief or building commissioner may require. (1988 Code § 3-8-7)
3-6-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If any person obtaining a license hereunder shall at any time fail or neglect
to comply with the terms of this chapter, then such license as may have been
issued may or shall be revoked by the fire chief or the building commissioner.
(1988 Code § 3-8-8)
3-6-9: EFFECT ON BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as in any way modifying the
building code, requirements of the village ordinances relative to fees for
building permits and all ordinances amendatory thereto. (1988 Code § 3-8-9)
3-6-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each day during or on which such violation occurs or continues.
(1988 Code § 3-8-10; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
FOOD AND BEVERAGES
ARTICLE A. RESTAURANTS AND FOOD STORES
SECTION:
3-7A-1: Definitions
3-7A-2: Permits And Licenses Required; Fees
3-7A-3: Sampling By Health Officer; Right To Prohibit Sale
3-7A-4: Inspections By Health Officer
3-7A-5: Premises Sanitation Requirements
3-7A-6: Grading Requirements
3-7A-7: Regrading Or Reinstatement Of Permit
3-7A-8: Employee Sanitation Requirements
3-7A-9: Regulatory Agencies
3-7A-10: Violation; Penalty
3-7A-11: Interpretation Of Provisions
3-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
EMPLOYEE: Any person who shall handle food or drink during preparation, serving
or sale, or who comes in contact with eating or cooking utensils, or who is
employed in a room in which food or drink is prepared, served or sold.
FOOD DEALER: Includes "restaurant", "itinerant restaurant", "food store" and
"itinerant vendor" as defined herein.
FOOD STORE: Grocery store, butcher store, delicatessen store, confectionery
store, bakery store, milk store, butter and egg store, fruit and vegetable
store, fish store, drugstore, ice cream store, or any combination of the
foregoing, or any place where food or drink is prepared, handled, stored,
offered for sale or sold at wholesale or retail, and all vending and dispensing
machines which contain or dispense such products.
HEALTH OFFICER: The health officer of the village or his authorized
representative duly appointed by the health officer by and with the consent and
approval of the board of trustees, except as to sections
3-7A-2 and
3-7A-3 of this article where such term shall mean only the duly appointed
health officer of the village.
ITINERANT RESTAURANT: A restaurant operating for a temporary period in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition or other similar
gathering.
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person traveling from place to place who shall deal in,
sell or offer for sale any article of food or drink at wholesale or retail in
the village and who does not operate within the village a regular, established
store or warehouse for the merchandising of foods, and who does not operate a
restaurant or food store.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation or association.
RESTAURANT: Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order cafe, luncheonette,
tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, school lunch, kitchen, and all other
establishments where foods or drinks are sold, as well as kitchens or other
places in which foods or drinks are prepared for sale elsewhere.
UTENSILS: Any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils, containers
or other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during storage,
preparation or serving. (1988 Code § 3-9A-1)
3-7A-2: PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED; FEES:
A.   Permits: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant or
food store in the village who does not possess an unrevoked permit from the
health officer, and any other governmental or regulatory body having
jurisdiction. Only persons who comply with the requirements of this article and
such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the board of health shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. A person conducting an itinerant
restaurant, or an itinerant vendor, shall also be required to secure a permit.
Permits shall not be transferable. Such a permit may be temporarily suspended
by the health officer as herein provided upon the violation by the holder of
any of the terms of this article or of the rules and regulations adopted by the
board of health, or may be revoked after an opportunity for a hearing by the
board of health upon serious or repeated violations. (1988 Code § 3-9A-2)
B.   Licenses: Each person keeping, maintaining or operating a "restaurant" or
"food store" in the village, and each "itinerant restaurant" and each
"itinerant vendor", as defined in section
3-7A-1 of this article, shall annually, on or before May 1 of each year or
prior to the commencement of such operations if such operations are commenced
after May 1 of the license year, procure a permit issued by the health officer
as provided in this section and the county health department, and shall pay to
the village clerk, for each such establishment or privilege, a license fee as
set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees"; whereupon, the village
clerk shall issue a license to such person, which license shall be for a period
not to exceed one year ending the following April 30 unless otherwise revoked
prior thereto. The fee for such license shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", for each year or part
thereof. (1988 Code § 3-9A-2; amd. 2009 Code)
3-7A-3: SAMPLING BY HEALTH OFFICER; RIGHT TO PROHIBIT SALE:
A.   Examine Samples: Samples of food or drink offered for human consumption in
the village may be taken and examined by the health officer or his designee as
often as may be necessary for the detection of unwholesomeness or adulteration.
The health officer shall forbid the sale of any food or drink found by him to
be unwholesome, adulterated or unfit for human consumption, and shall cause the
same to be forthwith removed from sale or destroyed.
B.   Sale Of Unwholesome Food Prohibited: No unwholesome or adulterated food or
drink, or food or drink unfit for human consumption, shall be prepared, stored,
served or sold. (1988 Code § 3-9A-3)
3-7A-4: INSPECTIONS BY HEALTH OFFICER:
A.   Inspection Schedule; Reports: At least once every six (6) months the
health officer shall inspect food stores, restaurants, itinerant restaurants
and itinerant vendors. One copy of the inspection report shall be given to the
licensee. Another copy of the inspection report shall be filed with the records
of the health department.
B.   Second Inspection; Degrading And Suspension: In case the health officer
discovers the violation of any item of sanitation required for the grade then
held, he shall make a second inspection after the lapse of such time as he
deems necessary for the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall
be used in determining compliance with the grade requirements of this article.
Any violation of the same item of this article on such second inspection shall
justify immediate degrading or suspension of permit.
C.   Applicants To Allow Inspections: The applicant for permit or the licensee
shall, upon request of the health officer, permit inspection by the health
officer of the food or drink establishment, food or drink utensils, machinery,
fixtures, furniture, conveyances and records used in connection therewith, and
the health officer shall have power to do so. (1988 Code § 3-9A-4)
3-7A-5: PREMISES SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Grade A: All grade A restaurants and food stores shall comply with all of
the following items of sanitation:
1.   Floors: The floors of all food and drink establishments, as defined in
section
3-7A-1 of this article, shall be of such construction as to be easily cleaned,
shall be smooth and shall be kept clean and in good repair.
2.   Walls And Ceilings: Walls and ceilings in all food and drink
establishments, as defined in section
3-7A-1 of this article, shall be finished with washable surfaces up to the
level reached by splash or spray, and shall be kept clean and in good repair.
3.   Doors And Windows: When insects are prevalent, all openings into the outer
air in the food or drink establishment, as defined in section
3-7A-1 of this article, shall be effectively screened and doors shall be self-
closing, unless other effective means are provided to prevent the entrance of
insects.
4.   Lighting: All rooms in which food or drink are stored or prepared, or in
which utensils are washed, shall be well lighted.
5.   Ventilation: All rooms in which food or drink are stored, prepared or
served, or in which utensils are washed, shall be well ventilated.
6.   Toilet, Lavatory And Washroom Facilities: Adequate and conveniently
located toilets and lavatories shall be provided for employees of restaurants
and food stores. The toilet rooms and lavatories shall be separate and apart
from the room or rooms where the process of production, preparation,
manufacture, packing, storing, canning, selling and distributing is conducted.
In establishments hereafter constructed, toilet rooms shall not open directly
into any room in which food, drink or utensils are handled or stored.
Lavatories and washrooms shall be adjacent to toilet rooms and shall be
supplied with soap, running water and towels other than common towels which are
prohibited hereby. The doors of all toilet and lavatory rooms shall be self-
closing. The floors of such toilet and lavatory rooms shall be of cement, tile,
wood, brick or other nonabsorbent material, and shall be washed and scoured
daily. Toilet rooms and lavatory rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in
good repair, and well lighted and ventilated. Handwashing signs shall be posted
in each toilet room used by employees.
7.   Water Supply: Running water under pressure shall be easily accessible to
all rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and the water shall
be adequate in quantity and of a safe and sanitary quality.
8.   Construction Of Utensils And Equipment: All multiuse utensils and all show
and display cases, windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigerating equipment,
sinks and other equipment or utensils used in connection with the operation of
an establishment shall be so constructed and located as to be easily cleaned
and shall be kept in good repair. Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or
lead shall not be used; however, solder containing lead may be used for
jointing.
9.   Cleaning And Bactericidal Treatment Of Utensils And Equipment: All
equipment, including display cases, windows, meat blocks, counters, shelves,
tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks, shall be kept clean and free
from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths used by
clerks, waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single service
containers shall be used only once. All multiple use eating and drinking
utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process after each usage. All multiuse utensils and equipment used
in the preparation or serving of food and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and
effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process at least once during
every twenty four (24) hour period of use or operation. Drying cloths, if used,
shall be clean and shall be used for a single purpose. No article, polish or
other substance containing any cyanide preparation or other poisonous material
shall be used for the cleaning or polishing of utensils.
10.   Storage And Handling Of Utensils And Equipment: All clean utensils shall
be stored in a clean, dry place protected from flies, dust and other
contamination, and shall be handled in such a manner as to minimize the
opportunity for contamination. Single service utensils shall be purchased only
in sanitary containers, shall be stored therein in a clean, dry place protected
from flies, insects, dust and other contamination until used, and shall be
handled in a sanitary manner.
11.   Disposal Of Waste:
a.   All wastes shall be disposed of properly.
b.   All garbage and trash shall be kept in one or more metal garbage
receptacles with adequate covers.
12.   Refrigeration: All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at or
below fifty degrees (50°), except when being prepared and served. Wastewater
from refrigeration equipment shall be properly disposed.
13.   Wholesomeness Of Food And Drink: All food and drink shall be clean,
wholesome, free from spoilage and so prepared as to be safe for human
consumption. All milk and fluid milk products served or sold shall be
pasteurized products. Milk and fluid milk products shall be served in the
individual original containers in which they were received from the
distributor; provided, that this requirement shall not apply to cream, which
may be served from the original bottle. Milk and milk products shall not be
sold after eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. of the date appearing on the
container. All oysters, clams and mussels shall be from federally approved
sources and, if shucked, shall be kept until used in the containers in which
they were placed at the shucking plant.
14.   Storage, Display And Serving Of Food And Drink: All foods and drink shall
be so stored, displayed and served as to be protected from dust, insects,
vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents, animals, unnecessary handling,
droplet infection, overhead leakage, and other contamination. No animals or
fowl shall be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is prepared,
stored, served or sold. All means necessary for the elimination of insects,
vermin and rodents shall be used; all food and drink establishments shall be
kept free at all times of insects, vermin, rodents and animals. All food and
drink shall be protected to prevent contamination while being delivered.
15.   Cleanliness Of Employees: All employees small wear clean outer garments
and shall keep their hands clean at all times while engaged in handling food,
drink, utensils or equipment. Employees shall not expectorate nor use tobacco
in any rooms in which food is prepared. All employees shall keep their hands
clean at all times.
16.   Miscellaneous: All premises shall be kept clean and free of litter or
rubbish. No operations connected with a food and drink establishment shall be
conducted in any room used as living or sleeping quarters, nor shall any person
be permitted to sleep in any such establishment. Adequate lockers or dressing
rooms shall be provided for employees. Soiled linens, coats and aprons shall be
kept in containers provided for this purpose. All premises shall be kept free
from any and all other pests, roaches, rodents, flies, insects and vermin, and
control measures and procedures will be utilized to ensure the elimination of
all of the above from such premises at all times.
B.   Grade B: Grade B restaurant and food stores are those which fail to comply
with subsections A1 through A5 of this section but which conform with all other
items of sanitation required for grade A restaurants.
C.   Grade C: Grade C restaurants and food stores are those which fail to
comply with either the grade A or the grade B requirements.
D.   Itinerant Restaurants: The health officer may issue temporary permits for
an itinerant restaurant if he believes the foregoing items of sanitation, as
they may apply to the particular equipment and methods of operation of the
itinerant restaurant, can be complied with to a degree that will not involve a
hazard to the consumer of its product. (1988 Code § 3-9A-5)
3-7A-6: GRADING REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Required Grades: From and after the effective date hereof, no restaurant
or food store shall be operated within the village unless it conforms with the
grade A or grade B or approved itinerant restaurant requirements of this
article; provided, that when any restaurant or food store fails to qualify for
any of these grades, the health officer is authorized to suspend the permit or,
in lieu thereof, to degrade the restaurant or food store and permit its
operation during a temporary period not exceeding thirty (30) days. (1988 Code
§ 3-9A-6)
B.   Posting Grade: Every restaurant or food store shall display at all times,
in a place designated by the health officer, a notice approved by the health
officer, stating the grade of the establishment as hereinafter provided. (1988
Code § 3-9A-7)
3-7A-7: REGRADING OR REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT:
A.   Application: Any restaurant or food store, the grade of which has been
lowered and all grade displays have been changed accordingly, or the permit of
which has been suspended, may at any time make application for regrading or the
reinstatement of the permit.
B.   Reinspection: Within one week after the receipt of a satisfactory
application, accompanied by a statement signed by the applicant to the effect
that the violated provision or provisions of this article have been conformed
to, the health officer shall make a reinspection, and thereafter as many
additional reinspections as he may deem necessary to assure himself that the
applicant is again complying with the higher grade requirements, and, in case
the finding indicates compliance, shall award the higher grade or reinstate the
permit. (1988 Code § 3-9A-8)
3-7A-8: EMPLOYEE SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Disease Control: No person who is afflicted with any disease in a
communicable form or is a carrier of such disease shall work or be permitted to
work in any restaurant or food store, and no restaurant or food store shall
employ any such person or any person suspected of being afflicted with any
disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of such disease. If the
operator of a restaurant or food store suspects that any employee has
contracted any disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of such
disease, he shall notify the health officer immediately. A placard containing
this section shall be posted in all toilet rooms. It shall be the duty and the
obligation of the owner and the employee, as well as the manager, to conform to
the provisions of this article.
B.   Procedure When Infection Is Suspected: When suspicion arises as to the
possibility of transmission of infection from any restaurant or food store
employee, the health officer, with the approval of two (2) or more members of
the board of health, is authorized to require any or all of the following
measures:
1.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all restaurants or food
stores.
2.   The immediate closing of the restaurant or food store concerned until no
further danger of disease outbreak exists, in the opinion of the health
officer.
3.   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his associates, with
such laboratory examination as may be indicated, at the expense of the owner of
the restaurant or food store. (1988 Code § 3-9A-9)
3-7A-9: REGULATORY AGENCIES:
In addition to the provisions of this article, all restaurants and food stores
shall comply with the statutes of the state of Illinois, the county of Lake
health department regulations, and the statutes, ordinances, rules and
regulations of any and all other regulatory bodies and agencies having
jurisdiction. (1988 Code § 3-9A-10)
3-7A-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A.   Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this article, or who refuses to comply with any lawful order or
requirement of the health officer duly made in writing as provided in section
3-7A-4 of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and for the second and subsequent offenses by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day after the expiration of the time limit for
abating unsanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate such
conditions, as ordered by the health officer as aforesaid, shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense. (1988 Code § 3-9A-11; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Disposition Of Fines; Prosecutions: All fines collected under the
provisions of this article shall be paid into the village treasury, and it
shall be the duty of the village attorney to prosecute all persons violating
the provisions of this article. (1988 Code § 3-9A-11)
3-7A-11: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Interpretation of the provisions of this article shall be based on rules and
regulations adopted by the village board of health. (1988 Code § 3-9A-9)
ARTICLE B. FOOD DELIVERY SERVICES
SECTION:
3-7B-1: License Requirements
3-7B-2: Sanitation Requirements
3-7B-3: Inspections
3-7B-4: Penalties
3-7B-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
A.   License And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the
use of any vehicle, including wagons and motor vehicles and vehicles propelled
by human power, for the storage or the carrying of any meats, poultry, fish,
butter, cheese, lard, vegetables, bread or bakery products, or any other
provisions intended for human consumption, including beverages and milk, in the
village for the purpose of delivering any such foodstuffs to any place in the
village for use and consumption or for resale in the village for such purpose,
unless a license for such vehicle is first secured and the provisions of this
article are fully complied with.
B.   Application For License: Application for said license shall be made to the
office of the village clerk, upon forms provided therefor, and shall state
thereon the name and address of the owner of any such vehicle, the name or
names of the persons for whom such deliveries are made, and the nature of the
goods carried. The village clerk shall issue such license, and shall furnish
the board of trustees with a list of all such licenses issued. (1988 Code § 3-
9B-1)
C.   License Fee And Term:
1.   Fee Established; Payment And Disposition; Term Of License: The annual fee
for such license shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", and shall be issued for
the period commencing on May 1 of each calendar year and ending on April 30 of
the following year. Such fees shall be paid to the village clerk, who shall
turn the same over to the village treasurer forthwith. (1988 Code § 3-9B-1;
amd. 2009 Code)
2.   Exemption From Fee: No license fee shall be required for any vehicle used
to deliver foodstuffs from any establishment which is licensed and inspected as
a food dealing establishment in the village under article A of this chapter or
any vehicle used for the delivery of milk and dairy products which are licensed
under article C of this chapter regulating milk production and distribution, or
any vehicles used by persons licensed as peddlers or solicitors; but all
provisions of this article shall be complied with in connection with such
vehicles other than that providing for the payment of fees. (1988 Code § 3-9B-
1)
3-7B-2: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Vehicles: All such vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be thoroughly cleaned each day they are so used. It shall
be unlawful to permit stale food, decaying matter or other waste material to
accumulate in or on such vehicle while it is so used.
B.   Unwrapped Foodstuffs: If unwrapped foodstuffs are transported in any such
vehicle, such goods shall be carried in a portion of the vehicle which is
screened and protected against dust and insects or any unsanitary condition.
(1988 Code § 3-9B-2)
3-7B-3: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the office of the village administrator to make or
cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this article. (1988 Code § 3-9B-3)
3-7B-4: PENALTIES:
A.   Fine: Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
B.   Revocation Of License: Any license granted under the provisions of this
article may be revoked by the village president for any violation hereof, and
such revocation shall be in addition to any fine imposed. (1988 Code § 3-9B-4;
amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE C. MILK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-7C-1: Adoption Of County Milk Regulations; Interpretation
3-7C-2: Permits And Licenses
3-7C-3: Inspections
3-7C-4: Enforcement Official
3-7C-5: Penalty
3-7C-1: ADOPTION OF COUNTY MILK REGULATIONS; INTERPRETATION:
A.   There is hereby adopted by reference, as the rules and regulations for
milk production and distribution in the village, the county board of health
ordinance, article IV, regulation of milk and milk products, in effect on June
13, 1960, and all amendments thereto, except section 16 thereof. (1988 Code §
3-9C-1)
B.   All references to the "health officer" in article IV of the county board
of health ordinance shall mean the duly appointed health officer of the
village, or his authorized representative. (1988 Code § 3-9C-2)
3-7C-2: PERMITS AND LICENSES:
A.   Permits: It shall be unlawful for any person to send into, bring into, or
receive in the village for sale, or to sell, or offer for sale therein, or to
have in storage where milk or milk products are sold or served, any milk or
milk products defined in article IV of the county board of health ordinance,
who does not possess a permit from the county health department. Only persons
who comply with the requirements of this article shall be entitled to receive
and retain such a permit.
B.   Licenses:
1.   License Required: No person shall engage in sale, delivery, or
distribution of milk or milk products within the village without first
obtaining a license therefor as herein provided.
2.   Application For License: Persons desiring to engage in the sale, delivery,
or distribution of milk or milk products within the village shall make written
application to the health officer of the village, who may authorize the
issuance of a license upon satisfactory proof that the applicant is entitled
hereunder to such license. (1988 Code § 3-9C-3)
3.   Fees: The annual fees for the various licenses for engaging in the
business of the sale, delivery, and distribution of milk and milk products in
the village shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees". (1988 Code § 3-9C-3;
amd. 2009 Code)
4.   Revocation Of License: The license may be revoked by the health officer
upon violation by the licensee of any of the provisions of this article, or of
any of the rules and regulations pertaining hereto, or in an emergency when, in
the judgment of the health officer, the milk or milk products handled by the
licensee have or may become a public health menace.
C.   Display Of Sticker And Certificate:
1.   Vehicle Sticker: Any person engaged in the business of delivering or
distributing milk or milk products within the village shall have displayed on
each vehicle engaged in such business a milk dealer's license plate or sticker
issued by the village.
2.   Certificate In Premises: Any person who shall engage in the wholesale or
retail milk business in the village shall cause his license certificate to be
placed and to remain in a conspicuous place in his place of business. (1988
Code § 3-9C-3)
3-7C-3: INSPECTIONS:
Each person to whom a license is issued shall permit inspection of his vehicles
or premises by the health officer or his authorized representative. (1988 Code
§ 3-9C-4)
3-7C-4: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
This article shall be enforced by the health officer. (1988 Code § 3-9C-5)
3-7C-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each day that the violation exists. Each and every
violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a separate
offense. (1988 Code § 3-9C-6; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition
3-8-2: License Required
3-8-3: Application For License; Fee, Term And Conditions
3-8-4: Inspection Of Goods
3-8-5: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITION:
Any person who shall engage in the business of buying, selling or otherwise
dealing in rags, old articles of clothing, paper, bottles, old iron, brass,
copper, tin, lead or other metals or junk shall be considered to be a "junk
dealer". (1970 Code § 31.01)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a junk dealer within the village
without first obtaining a license therefor, as herein provided. (1970 Code §
31.02)
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE, TERM AND CONDITIONS:
A.   Application And Fee: Any person desiring to obtain a license as a junk
dealer shall make application therefor to the chief of police, who shall make
such investigation of the honesty and reliability of the applicant as in his
judgment is deemed best, and pay a fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", at the time of filing
such application.
B.   Term And Conditions Of License: Should such license be granted, such fee
shall entitle the applicant to operate as a junk dealer during the current
calendar year but shall be conditioned on the due observance of all ordinances
of the village applicable to such operations which are now or may hereafter be
in force during the continuation of such license; otherwise, such fee shall be
refunded. (1970 Code § 31.03; amd. 2009 Code)
3-8-4: INSPECTION OF GOODS:
Every junk dealer who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles
or things of value which may have been lost or stolen, or alleged to have been
lost or stolen, shall, upon demand to view or examine the same, forthwith
produce such goods, articles or things of value to any member of the police
department. (1970 Code § 31.04)
3-8-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than the maximum provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each day on which such violation occurs or continues. (1970 Code
§ 31.05; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 9
BUSINESS OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Application Of Provisions
3-9-2: Certificate Requirements
3-9-3: Change Of Occupant
3-9-4: Change In Ownership
3-9-5: Denial Of Certificate
3-9-6: Penalty
3-9-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all uses and occupancy in
the light industry district, limited light industry district, office and
research district, service district, railroad district, and central business
district, and to all special uses located in said districts in the village.
(Ord. 89-17, 3-20-1989; amd. 2009 Code)
3-9-2: CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Certificate Required: No building, or addition thereto, and no addition or
alteration to a previously existing building shall be occupied or used and no
land vacant on the effective date hereof shall be used for any purpose until
and unless a business occupancy certificate has been issued therefor by the
village. This certificate shall be in addition to the occupancy permit
specified in title 10 of this code and shall be made on forms furnished by the
village. (Ord. 89-17, 3-20-1989)
B.   Fee: At the time of application, a fee in the amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", shall be due and
payable. (Ord. 89-17, 3-20-1989; amd. 2009 Code)
C.   Contents Of Certificate; Posting Required: Each business occupancy
certificate shall state the purpose for which the property is occupied and
shall be permanently posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises.
D.   Responsibility Of Owner And Occupant: It shall be the duty and
responsibility of the occupant of any premises regulated hereby to secure a
business occupancy certificate, and it shall be the dual responsibility of the
owner of any premises regulated hereby to ensure that all of his tenants have a
valid business occupancy certificate for premises owned by the owner. (Ord. 89-
17, 3-20-1989)
3-9-3: CHANGE OF OCCUPANT:
A.   A new business occupancy certificate shall be required for each change in
occupant of any premises, whether or not the use is changed.
B.   Business occupancy certificates, upon change in occupant, shall be applied
for before any occupancy takes place. "Change in occupant" shall also include
change in use of the premises, whether by the same occupant or not. (Ord. 89-
17, 3-20-1989)
3-9-4: CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP:
Upon change in ownership, but not of the occupant, the new owner shall, within
thirty (30) days, notify the village of such change. "Owner" shall mean the
title holder of record. (Ord. 89-17, 3-20-1989)
3-9-5: DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE:
Denial of any business certificate of occupancy by the village shall be made
within ten (10) days after receipt of an application therefor, or if any
information is missing from an application, within ten (10) days after all of
the required information is furnished. Such denial shall set forth the reasons
therefor. (Ord. 89-17, 3-20-1989)
3-9-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation exists or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate violation. Any fine or penalty imposed herein may
be made against the occupant or the owner of the premises, or both. (Ord. 89-
17, 3-20-1989; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 10
FILMING AND VIDEOTAPING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Intent
3-10-2: Village Approval Required
3-10-3: General Requirements
3-10-4: Exceptions
3-10-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to provide regulations governing the filming and/
or taping of certain television shows, commercials, feature films and/or
videotapes, movie productions and other related activities within the corporate
limits of the village, including the use by such productions of the streets,
rights of way, equipment and personnel of the village. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
3-10-2: VILLAGE APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided herein, no person, firm, individual, corporation,
association, partnership or any other organization, entity or group shall
engage in the production of feature films, television shows, commercials or
other commercial filming, taping or videotaping (collectively referred to as
"filming activities") without first obtaining the approval of the village as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
3-10-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Application; Fee:
1.   Application And Fee: Prior to commencement of any filming activities, the
producer, his representative or an agent for the production company shall
submit to the village administrator or his designee an application for
commercial filming or taping in a form prescribed by the village administrator
or his designee and approved by the village attorney. Included within the
application shall be a proposed notice to affected property owners as set forth
in subsection B of this section. In addition, applicants shall submit a
nonrefundable application fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", and such other
information as may be requested by the village administrator or his designee.
The producer or his authorized representative shall sign the application. (Ord.
94-4, 2-28-1994; amd. Ord. 2000-9, 6-26-2000; 2009 Code)
2.   Signing Agreements: Upon approval of the application, the producer shall
enter into such agreements with the village as determined necessary by the
village administrator and village attorney. Any such agreement must be signed
by the village administrator or his designee prior to any production activity
taking place. The signed copy will be returned to the producer or his
representative.
3.   Specific Time Period: Authorization shall be granted for a specific period
of time, and the hours of production shall be designated on the approval,
giving due consideration to the requirements of the production.
4.   Complete Informational Forms: Any production or production company
intending to commence filming activities within the corporate limits of the
village shall be required to complete and return such informational forms as
may be reasonably requested by the village, whether as part of the application
submitted or at any other time. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
B.   Notice To Affected Property Owners: Prior to commencement of filming
activities, and at a time set by the village, the producer shall circulate a
notice to all property owners in the area of the production as defined by the
village representative. Such notice shall include a short description of the
proposed project and the filming or taping schedule. A copy of the notice shall
be reviewed by the village prior to circulation. The notice shall state that
concerns should be reported to the village police department and provide the
appropriate village contact name, title and telephone number. The producer
shall record any reaction from property owners and residents and shall submit a
report to the village administrator or his designee noting any resident
reactions, along with a list of the addresses and phone numbers of all property
owners within the affected area. This completed report must be delivered to the
office of the village administrator not less than five (5) days prior to the
commencement of the production. (Ord. 2000-9, 6-26-2000)
C.   On Site Location Coordinator: For the duration of the production, the
producer shall provide a permanent on site location coordinator who shall act
as liaison between the production company, the village, property owners and
village residents. The on site location coordinator shall be available at the
location during the filming period. The producer shall provide the following
information regarding the on site location coordinator:
         Name
         Title
         On site location phone number
         Office telephone number
         Pager number
D.   Security: The applicant shall contact the Lake Bluff police department as
soon as filming locations and schedules are known. The village will review all
plans for the production and advise the applicant of the extent of the security
that must be provided. All traffic protection and devices (signs, barricades,
etc.) shall be provided by the applicant.
E.   Use Of Village Personnel And Equipment: The producer shall pay for the
costs of any police, fire, public works or other village personnel assigned to
the project (whether specifically requested by the producer or not) at a rate
equal to the salary and benefits paid to the individual employee by the
village, including overtime pay as necessary. Remuneration rates for the use of
any village equipment shall be established on a case by case basis, giving due
consideration to the nature of the vehicle, cost of the vehicle, the proposed
use of the vehicle, comparable schedules for vehicle usage adopted by any other
public agency, and the useful life of the vehicle. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
F.   Use Of Village Property; Fees:
1.   Fees Enumerated: The producer shall pay a fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", for inconvenience
caused by any of the following uses of public property:
a.   Disruptive use.
b.   Nondisruptive use.
c.   Total closure of a public street or right of way.
d.   Partial closure or obstruction of public street or right of way.
2.   Deposit: Fees for the inconveniences set out in subsection F1 of this
section shall be paid upon the conclusion of production. Based upon the
schedule submitted by the producer at the time of application, the village may
require a deposit against costs and expenses anticipated to become due to the
village. If it appears that damage to property, public street, or rights of way
may occur, the producer shall make a deposit in an amount equal to one and one-
half (11/2) times the anticipated cost of restoration. Upon completion of the
restoration and determination of actual cost, any excess restoration deposit
shall be returned to the producer. In the event of any deficiency in the
deposit, the village shall submit an invoice to the producer, and the producer
shall pay the same within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2000-9, 6-26-2000; amd. 2009
Code)
G.   Alteration To Property: Upon completion of the production, the producer
shall restore any and all property of the village to its original condition,
unless the corporate authorities have previously agreed to allow any alteration
to the property to remain.
H.   Control Of Hours And Location; Inspections:
1.   Village Right To Regulate: The village shall have the right to regulate
the hours and general locations of filming activities to the extent necessary
to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the community. Normal operating
hours for filming activities shall be between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M., and filming during other than such normal operating hours
shall be so controlled so as not to cause a nuisance. The village shall at all
times have the authority to determine the extent of use of public streets,
rights of way and public property owned by the village, and general location of
the film production activities.
2.   Producer To Advise Village Of Special Conditions: The producer shall
advise the village administrator or his designee of any potential for
extraordinary noise, smoke, light, vibrations, etc., that may occur during the
production and the times when such will occur. The village may request the
producer to provide special notice to affected property owners in the vicinity
of the production regarding the anticipated potential for any extraordinary
noise, smoke, light, vibrations, etc.
3.   Inspection By Village: The village shall have the right to inspect any
location to be used for filming or taping, to inspect all structures and/or
devices and equipment to be used in connection with the filming or taping, and
the producer or production company shall fully and completely cooperate with
the village in granting access at all reasonable times for purposes of
inspection.
I.   Parking Of Production Vehicles: The producer shall make adequate
arrangements for off street parking of production vehicles not utilized during
actual filming or taping, and there shall be no parking on village streets
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. unless
permission is received from the office of the village administrator. Should
street parking that interferes with vehicular traffic be necessary for the
production, the village shall be entitled to the fees referred to in subsection
F of this section.
J.   Insurance: The producer shall secure a policy or policies of insurance,
naming the village, its corporate authorities, elected officials, officers,
boards, commissions, attorneys, employees and agents as additional insureds
with respect to any and all claims which arise out of, or are in any way
related to, the operations of the filmmaker in filming activities while
present, within the corporate limits of the village, such policies to be in the
following amounts and coverage: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined
single limit and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate general
liability, including bodily injury and property damage; and automobile
liability, including bodily injury and property damage. The producer shall
provide a certificate of insurance evidencing that the village has been named
as an additional insured on the appropriate policies of insurance, and no
filming activity shall take place until the certificate of insurance is
provided. Upon request by the village, the producer shall furnish copies of the
actual endorsement.
K.   Indemnification: The producer shall sign an indemnification and hold
harmless agreement in substantially the following form:
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the producer hereby agrees to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the Village of Lake Bluff, its officials, agents
and employees, against all injuries, deaths, losses, damages, claims, patent
claims, suits, liabilities, judgments, cost and expenses, which may in anywise
accrue against the Municipality, its officials, agents and employees, arising
in whole or in part or in consequence of the performance of this work by
producer, its employees or subcontractors, or which may in anywise result
therefrom, at its own expense, appear, defend and pay all charges of attorneys
and all costs and other expenses arising therefrom or incurred in connection
therewith and, if any judgment shall be rendered against the Municipality, its
officials, agents and employees, in any such action, the producer shall, at its
own expense, satisfy and discharge the same. The person signing below further
certifies that he or she is authorized on behalf of the producer to execute
this agreement and bind the producer to the agreement.
L.   Liability: The producer shall pay all fees assessed by the village and
shall reimburse the village for all costs and expenses incurred by the village
related to any filming activities undertaken by the applicant. The producer
shall pay in full, promptly upon receipt of an invoice, the costs of repair for
any and all damage to public or private property resulting from or occurring in
connection with the production and restore the property to its condition prior
to the production. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
3-10-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to the following types
of filming activity:
A.   Personal Use: Any filming activity undertaken solely for personal use and
not intended as part of any commercial enterprise for future viewing on a fee
basis or for resale to the general public, or for broadcast to the general
public, including, but not limited to, filming and videotaping of weddings,
sporting events, musical events, educational films or instructional films.
B.   Not Intended For Resale: Videotaping of newscasts and any similar filming
or videotaping not intended for resale to the general public and not intended
for viewing on a fee basis, but which may be broadcast by network or cable
television to the general public as part of any regularly scheduled or special
news program. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
C.   Small Number Crew Members: Any filming or videotaping for commercial
purposes of any commercial, educational video, instructional video, music
video, television show, movie, film, etc., involving a production crew of ten
(10) people or less, except when such filming or videotaping involves the use
of public streets or rights of way, or village property (real or personal), or
village personnel, or village equipment. Whenever such film or videotape
involves the property (real or personal), or village personnel, or village
equipment, then the provisions of this chapter shall apply. Whenever any
production that is exempt from the provisions of this chapter pursuant to this
subsection occurs in a residential zoning district, the producer shall notify
the village not less than three (3) business days in advance of the filming or
taping. In addition, the producer or filmmaker shall also timely notify the
residents in the affected area on a form approved by the village of the date
filming is to commence. (Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994; amd. 2009 Code)
D.   Local Access Channels: The community television productions intended for
the local access channels of the cable television franchise of the village.
(Ord. 94-4, 2-28-1994)
CHAPTER 11
CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee
3-11-3: PEG Access Support Fee
3-11-4: Accounting
3-11-5: Effect On Other Taxes
3-11-6: Audits
3-11-7: Late Payments
3-11-8: Customer Credits
3-11-9: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3-11-10: Effective Date
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: A. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
B.   "Gross revenues" shall include the following:
1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including, but not
limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video service
including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair charges.
5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service including, but not limited to, service order and service termination
charges.
6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and other
charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its affiliates
pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation of the
holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the village.
The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the village
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the operation of
the holder's network to provide cable service or video service with respect to
commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network, such as a "home
shopping" or similar channel, subject to the definition of "video service" in
this section.
9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the "gross revenue" unless
the holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue
from its books and records that is kept in the regular course of business.
10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-801(b).
C.   "Gross revenues" do not include any of the following:
1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt, subject
to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of
"gross revenues" received by the holder of the state issued authorization to
the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable
service or video service.
3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, functionally
integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues received from
services not classified as cable service or video service, including, without
limitation, revenue received from telecommunications services, information
services, or the provision of directory or internet advertising, including
yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and electronic publishing or
any other revenues attributed by the holder to noncable service or nonvideo
service in accordance with the holder's books and records and records kept in
the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards, or orders.
4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or
the transaction by a village, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
D.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the calculation
of "gross revenues" to the extent the treatment of the revenue as revenue of
the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the payment of
the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and the
interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
rights of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332
(d) or any video programming provided solely as part of and via service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE:
A.   Fee Imposed; Exemption: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing
cable service or video service in the village. The amount of the fee imposed
hereby shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "taxes". The fee hereby imposed does
not apply to existing cable service or video service providers that have an
existing franchise agreement with the village in which a fee is paid. (Ord.
2008-2, 1-14-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Notice To Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
C.   Liability Of Holder: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of a copy of this chapter by the holder. A copy of this chapter shall be sent
by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the holder's application
notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
village.
D.   Due Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE:
A.   Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any holder
providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to the fee
imposed pursuant to section
3-11-2 of this chapter. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "taxes". (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008; amd.
2009 Code)
B.   Payment Of Fee; Liability Of Holder: The holder shall pay the PEG access
support fee to the village or to the entity designated by the village to manage
PEG access. The holder's liability for the PEG access support fee shall
commence on the date set forth in subsection C of this section.
C.   Due Date: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
D.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-4: ACCOUNTING:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-5: EFFECT ON OTHER TAXES:
A.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service.
B.   A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village telecommunications tax,
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee, or any other tax as it
applies to any telephone service provided by the holder.
C.   A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village 911 or E911 fees, taxes or
charges. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-6: AUDITS:
A.   The village will notify the holder of the requirements it imposes on other
cable service or video service providers to submit to an audit of its books and
records.
B.   The holder shall comply with the same requirements the village imposes on
other cable service or video service providers in its jurisdiction to audit the
holder's books and records and to recompute any amounts determined to be
payable under the requirements of the village.
C.   If all local franchises between the village and cable operators terminate,
the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village pursuant to the
local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes
45/1 et seq 1 .
D.   No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
E.   Any additional amount due after an audit shall be paid within thirty (30)
days after the village submission of an invoice for the sum. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-
14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 8, article K of this code.
3-11-7: LATE PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-8: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided in 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing
cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The
cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits, and the
customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-9: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
A.   State Law Adopted: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-
501 are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village boundaries.
B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection law
that becomes effective after the effective date hereof shall be incorporated
into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or video
providers offering services within the village boundaries. However, any
amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without formal action
by the corporate authorities of the village.
C.   Enforcement: The village does hereby, pursuant to law, declare its intent
to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards of the
cable and video protection law with respect to complaints received from
residents within the village.
D.   Penalties:
1.   The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1),
does hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the
cable and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer. "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
2.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of any
alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least thirty
(30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material
breach.
3.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be deemed
to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by the cable
or video service provider after notice provided in subsection D2 of this
section. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
3-11-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after its passage,
approval, publication in pamphlet form in the manner provided by law; provided,
however, that the provisions of sections
3-11-8 and
3-11-9 of this chapter shall take effect as to incumbent cable operators on
January 1, 2008. (Ord. 2008-2, 1-14-2008)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTRONIC BUSINESS INFORMATION DISPLAYS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definition
3-12-2: Purpose
3-12-3: Village Board Approval Required
3-12-4: Application
3-12-5: Number Of Permitted Electronic Business Information Displays
3-12-6: Restoration
3-12-7: Limited Applicability Of Sign Regulations
3-12-1: DEFINITION:
Electronic business information displays are defined in section
10-10-3 of this code. (Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-2011)
3-12-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to preserve the public health, safety, and
welfare and maintain the character of the village's central business district
(CBD) by providing the village with the opportunity to approve or deny the use
of electronic business information displays in the CBD district. (Ord. 2011-24,
12-12-2011)
3-12-3: VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No electronic business information display may be installed or operated in the
village without the prior approval of the village board by ordinance duly
adopted. (Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-2011)
3-12-4: APPLICATION:
A business in the CBD that desires to use an electronic business information
display must submit an application for consideration by the village board in
the form required by the village administrator or his designee. The application
must include, without limitation, information regarding compliance with all of
the restrictions set forth in subsection 10-10-4I of this code. (Ord. 2011-24,
12-12-2011)
3-12-5: NUMBER OF PERMITTED ELECTRONIC BUSINESS INFORMATION DISPLAYS:
No more than one electronic business information display shall be permitted in
the village. (Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-2011)
3-12-6: RESTORATION:
If an electronic business information display is removed, the owner or tenant
must restore the exterior of the building to the same or better condition as
existed prior to the installation of the display, as determined by the village
building commissioner. (Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-2011)
3-12-7: LIMITED APPLICABILITY OF SIGN REGULATIONS:
A.   Electronic business information displays are signs subject to those
specific conditions and regulations set forth in subsection 10-10-4I of this
code, but shall not require review by either the village administrator pursuant
to section
10-10-13 of this code or by the architectural board of review pursuant to
section
10-10-14 of this code.
B.   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of title 10 of this
code and this chapter concerning the regulation of electronic business
information displays, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (Ord. 2011-
24, 12-12-2011)
CHAPTER 13
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Massage Establishment License Required
3-13-3: Massage Establishment License Fee
3-13-4: Application Requirements
3-13-5: Investigation Before License Issuance
3-13-6: Grounds For Denial Of License
3-13-7: Compliance Inspections
3-13-8: Employment Of Licensed Massage Therapists
3-13-9: Operating Requirements
3-13-10: Cleanliness Of Premises
3-13-11: Restrictions On Advertising
3-13-12: Employment Of Minors
3-13-13: Massage Establishment License; Exemptions
3-13-14: Violation; Penalty
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
EMPLOYEE: Any person other than a massage therapist who renders any service for
the licensee and who receives compensation directly from the licensee but has
no physical contact with customers or clients.
LICENSEE: The operator of a massage establishment.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on, friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, bathing, touching, binding, painting, irritating,
or stimulating of external soft parts of the body with hands or with the aid of
any manual, mechanical, or electrical apparatus or appliance, with or without
such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptic oils, powder,
creams, lotions, soaps, ointments, or other similar preparations commonly used
in this practice, but does not mean the provision by a state licensed barber or
cosmetologist of customary barber or cosmetologist services, including, without
limitation, scalp rubs, hand rubs, feet and lower leg rubs, and facials, that
are authorized by state license.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having its place of business where any
person, firm, association or corporation engages in, carries on, or permits to
be engaged or carried on any of the activities referenced in the definition of
"massage" in this section.
MASSAGE SERVICES: The performance of a massage.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of "massage" as herein defined.
PERSON: Any individual, copartnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation, or any combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person, including the vulva or breasts of a female. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-2: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, operate or maintain or permit to be conducted,
operated or maintained, or participate in the conduct, operation or maintenance
of, a massage establishment within the village unless the village has issued a
license for such massage establishment as provided for in this chapter which is
in full force and effect, and such valid and current license is displayed in a
conspicuous place within the massage establishment at all times. Licenses shall
be valid for a period of one year, and shall be valid only for the address
specified as the location of the massage establishment in the application for
license. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-3: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE FEE:
The annual registration license fee for each massage establishment shall be as
established in section
1-12-3 of this code. A massage establishment that receives a massage
establishment license pursuant to this chapter will not be required to
additionally obtain a business occupancy certificate pursuant to section
3-9-2 of this title. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-4: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to operate a massage establishment shall make application
for a license to the village administrator, on a form supplied by the village
administrator. The application shall include the following additional items:
A.   The name of the person(s) who will serve as the licensee under whose
management or supervision the massage establishment will be operated;
B.   Copies of a valid license or licenses issued by the Illinois department of
financial and professional regulation pursuant to the massage licensing act,
225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 57/1 et seq., for each massage therapist who
will provide massage services at the massage establishment;
C.   In connection with the applicant or any employee, written authorization
for the conduct of a criminal background investigation pursuant to section
3-13-5 of this chapter; and
D.   Such other information as the village administrator may request. (Ord.
2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-5: INVESTIGATION BEFORE LICENSE ISSUANCE:
A.   The village administrator shall have the right and opportunity, but not
the obligation, to request information and assistance from any appropriate
federal, state, or local governmental agency as part of the authorized
investigation of the applicant or any employee. If requested by the village
administrator, criminal background check forms will be completed and forwarded
to the Illinois state police who will conduct a criminal background
investigation. In addition, the village administrator shall review the
materials required pursuant to this chapter. Payment of all costs associated
with any investigation or criminal background check pursuant to this section
shall be paid by the applicant.
B.   Information concerning convictions or findings of guilty of a person
investigated under this section, including the source of the information and
any conclusions or recommendations derived from the information, shall be
provided, upon request, to the applicant prior to final action by the village
on the application. Such information on convictions or findings of guilty shall
be provided, upon request, to the person investigated.
C.   Any information concerning criminal convictions or findings of guilty
obtained by the village shall be confidential and may not be transmitted
outside the village, except as required herein, and may not be transmitted to
anyone within the village except as needed for the purpose of evaluating the
applicant, an employee, or other person investigated pursuant to this section.
D.   Only information and evaluation standards that bear a reasonable and
rational relation to the operation of a massage establishment shall be used by
the village. Any person receiving confidential information under this section
who gives or causes to be given any confidential information concerning any
criminal convictions or findings of guilty of an applicant, employee, or other
person investigated shall be guilty of a violation of this code unless a
release of such information is authorized by this section, or by a court of
competent jurisdiction, or by the person investigated. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-
2014)
3-13-6: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
A massage establishment license may be denied if the applicant or any person
employed by, or working in, the massage establishment has been convicted of
committing or attempting to commit any of the following offenses:
A.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children;
B.   Any provision of article 11, entitled "sex offenses", of the criminal
code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1 et seq.;
C.   A violation of the controlled substances act;
D.   A violation of the cannabis control act; or
E.   An offense in any other state, or a federal offense, the elements of which
are similar and bear a substantial relationship to any offenses enumerated in
this section. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-7: COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS:
After issuance of a massage establishment license, the licensee shall provide
any representative of the village with a reasonable opportunity to inspect the
premises for which the permit is requested and to interview the licensee's
agents and employees for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this
chapter and other applicable ordinances and state and federal laws are being
complied with. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to allow any
representative of the village access to the premises of the massage
establishment or to hinder such access in any manner. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-8: EMPLOYMENT OF LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPISTS:
No massage therapist may be employed in a massage establishment who does not
hold a current, valid license issued by the Illinois department of financial
and professional regulation, as required by the massage licensing act, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 57/1 et seq., which license may not have been
suspended, revoked, or temporarily suspended by the department under that act.
Each massage establishment shall maintain a current listing of all licensed
massage therapists who perform massage services at the massage establishment,
along with proof of their valid and current Illinois licensure, and must allow
inspection of such records at any reasonable time upon the request of any
representative of the village. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-9: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including any and all
appliances, apparatus, or other mechanical and therapeutic devices shall be
kept clean and operated under sanitary conditions.
B.   All employees and massage therapists shall wear clean, nontransparent
outer garments covering the sexual and genital areas.
C.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean laundered sheets
and towels in sufficient quantity which shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner. All towels and linens furnished for
use of one patron shall not be furnished for use of another patron until
laundered.
D.   The sexual or genital areas of clients must be covered with nontransparent
towels, cloths, or undergarments when in the presence of an employee or massage
therapist.
E.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, baths, and steam rooms and
any other physical facilities shall be kept in good repair and maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor cabinets,
shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly cleaned each day the
massage establishment is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be thoroughly
cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it shall be kept
dry.
F.   Oils, creams, lotions, and other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
G.   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running water
using a proper soap or disinfectant before administering any massage to any
customer or client.
H.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the massage establishment to place
his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his body, or fondle in any
manner, or massage a sexual or genital area of any person.
I.   No massage therapist, employee, or licensee shall perform, offer, or agree
to perform any act which shall require the touching of a client's sexual or
genital area.
J.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a client exhibiting any
skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed by the state of Illinois shall certify in writing that
such person may be safely massaged and shall describe the conditions under
which such massage may be performed. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-10: CLEANLINESS OF PREMISES:
A.   Every massage establishment shall comply with the following minimum
requirements:
1.   All massage tables, lavatories, and floors shall have surfaces which may
be readily disinfected.
2.   Private dressing, locker, toilet, and massage room facilities shall be
provided for clients. Doors to the dressing rooms shall open inward and shall
be self-closing.
3.   When five (5) or more employees, massage therapists, or patrons of
different sexes are contemplated to be on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A lavatory capable
of providing both hot and cold running water shall be installed in each toilet
room and shall be supplied with soap and a dispenser with sanitary towels.
4.   Closed cabinets shall be provided for use in the storage of clean linens,
towels, and other materials used in administering massage services. All soiled
linens, towels, and other materials shall be kept in properly covered
containers or cabinets which shall be kept separate from the clean storage
areas.
B.   Subsections A2, A3, and A4 of this section shall not apply to a massage
establishment where all massages are administered to patrons who are fully
clothed and where there is no application of oils, creams, lotions, or other
liquids to the body of any client. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-11: RESTRICTIONS ON ADVERTISING:
No massage establishment shall depict, place, publish, distribute, or cause to
be depicted, placed, published, or distributed any advertising matter that
suggests to prospective clients that any services are available other than
those services permitted by this chapter, or which would suggest that employees
or massage therapists are dressed in any manner other than that permitted by
this chapter. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-12: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any massage establishment to employ any person who is
not at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-13: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE; EXEMPTIONS:
No massage establishment license shall be required for hospitals, nursing
homes, sanatoriums, or medical offices at which a healthcare worker duly
licensed by the state of Illinois provides, on an ongoing basis, professional
health services including massages to individuals, including the offices of an
occupational therapist licensed under the Illinois occupational therapy
practice act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 75/1 et seq.; a physician
therapist licensed under the Illinois physical therapy act, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 90/1 et seq.; a physician licensed under the medical practice
act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 60/1 et seq.; a chiropractor licensed under
the medical practice act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 60/1 et seq.; a
dentist licensed under the Illinois dental practice act, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 25/1 et seq.; an athletic trainer licensed under the Illinois athletic
trainers practice act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.; an
optometrist licensed under the Illinois optometric practice act of 1987, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 80/1 et seq.; a podiatrist licensed under the
podiatric medical practice act of 1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 100/1 et
seq.; an acupuncturist licensed under the acupuncture practice act, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 2/1 et seq.; and a naprapath listed under the
Illinois naprapathic practice act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 63/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
3-13-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in
the amount of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the
maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation is found to have existed shall be
deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-12-2014)
CHAPTER 14
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-14-1: Adoption; Purpose
3-14-2: Definitions
3-14-3: License Required
3-14-4: Application
3-14-5: Information Required On Application
3-14-6: Number Of Raffles Limited
3-14-7: Eligibility Requirements
3-14-8: Organization Eligible For License
3-14-9: Location Limitations
3-14-10: Rules Governing Raffles
3-14-11: License Fee
3-14-12: Gambling Prohibition
3-14-13: Penalty
3-14-1: ADOPTION; PURPOSE:
A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 15/0.01 et seq.
B.   The purpose of this chapter is to license and regulate raffles conducted
within the Village. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of people. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expected for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NON-PROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of its
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2(b),
in which the player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one (1) or more of which chances is to be designated the
winning chance and in which the winning chance is to be determined through a
drawing or some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of
acts on the part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except
that, the winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, organization or corporation shall conduct a raffle within the
Village without first having obtained a license therefor pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-4: APPLICATION:
Applications for a license to conduct a raffle shall be made to the Village
Administrator or his or her designee upon forms provided by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-5: INFORMATION REQUIRED ON APPLICATION:
All applications for a license to conduct a raffle under the terms of this
chapter shall contain at least the following information together with such
additional information as may be determined by the Village Administrator or his
or her designee for the purpose of complying with this chapter:
A.   The area within the Village in which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
B.   The length of time during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
C.   The time of determination of winning chances and the location at which
winning chances will be determined; and
D.   The application must contain a sworn statement attesting to the not-for-
profit character of the prospective licensed organization signed by the
presiding officer and the secretary of that organization. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-
2017)
3-14-6: NUMBER OF RAFFLES LIMITED:
Any license issued under this chapter authorizes the licensee to conduct only
one (1) raffle. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-7: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:
The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling promoter;
C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
D.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C
of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in which
such a person is active or employed;
E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of this
section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of this
section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined
in this chapter. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-8: ORGANIZATION ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
Licenses under this chapter shall be issued only to bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continually for a period of five (5) years immediately before making
application for a license and which have had, during that entire five-year
period, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives. The 5-
year requirement in this section may be waived by the Village Administrator or
his or her designee if the organization is organized and operated in the
Village and is affiliated with and chartered by a national or State
organization that meets the 5-year requirement. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-9: LOCATION LIMITATIONS:
No license issued under this chapter shall authorize the licensee to conduct a
raffle outside of the Village. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-10: RULES GOVERNING RAFFLES:
All raffles licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall comply with the
following:
A.   If all or a portion of the prize is cash, the maximum amount of cash award
in a single raffle shall not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
B.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
C.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
D.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to the
lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct the raffle.
E.   No person, except the bona fide member of the sponsoring organization, may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
F.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle.
G.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance or
chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under this
chapter and such premises must be within the Village.
H.   Winning chances must be determined only at a location within the Village
specified on the license.
I.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
J.   The operation and conduct of all raffles shall be under the supervision of
one (1) raffles manager designated by his or her organization. The manager
shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of not less than an amount equal to two
hundred percent (200%) of the aggregate retail value of all prizes in favor of
the organization conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his
or her duties. The bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to
the Village not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation.
K.   Each organization licensed hereunder shall keep records of its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at
which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross receipts for
each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other
records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service
or other reason for the deduction and the recipient. The distribution of net
proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from other
revenues of the organization of every kind and nature and placed in a separate
account. Each organization shall have separate records of its raffles and the
person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the
operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the organization.
L.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles under the terms of this
chapter shall report promptly after the conclusion of each raffle to its
membership and to the Village its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds, itemized as required in this
chapter.
M.   All records required by this chapter shall be preserved for three (3)
years and shall be open for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-11: LICENSE FEE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for one (1) raffle only
and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this chapter. The license
fee shall be as set forth in the Village's comprehensive fee schedule contained
in title 1 chapter 12 of this Code. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-12: GAMBLING PROHIBITION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conduct or
operation of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
3-14-13: PENALTY:
Any person or firm violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
the general penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 15
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: License Required
3-15-3: Application For License
3-15-4: License Fee
3-15-5: Revocation Or Denial Of License
 
3-15-6: Penalty
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
             Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
             constructing, enlarging, altering, removing or remodeling any
CONTRACTOR : structure by furnishing labor, materials or methods necessary to
             accomplish a given result, and who retains for himself the control
             of the means, method and manner of accomplishing this desired
             result.
VILLAGE:     The Village of Lake Bluff, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2025-5, 2-
             10-2025)
 
3-15-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No contractor may engage in electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
sewer work, water, septic or sewage disposal systems, storm sewer, fence,
concrete, driveway, patio, roadway, or construction work of any nature and
description in the village, without first having obtained a license thereof
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2025-5, 2-10-2025)
3-15-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
contractor must apply to the village for a contractor's license. The
application form for such license requires the following information:
   A.   Name of applicant;
   B.   Whether the applicant is an individual, partnership or a corporation;
   C.   Contact information for the applicant;
   D.   A copy of the liability insurance certificate, workers compensation
insurance certification, including amounts and expiration dates; and
   E.   The type of construction to be performed by the applicant. (Ord. 2025-
5, 2-10-2025)
3-15-4: LICENSE FEE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter will be valid until the end of the
current fiscal year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the
village code. The license fee is set forth in section 1-12-3 of the village
code. (Ord. 2025-5, 2-10-2025)
3-15-5: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
village administrator, or any application for issuance or renewal of such
license may be refused by the village building codes supervisor, if either
determines after notice and hearing:
      1.   That the application of the applicant or license holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading material statement;
      2.   That the applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent
or misleading material statement, or has been convicted of perpetrating a fraud
upon any person, whether or not such fraud was perpetrated in the course of
conducting any business in the village, or that the applicant or license holder
has committed a felony; or
      3.   That the applicant or license holder has violated provisions of the
village code, or has conducted any activities directly related to his business
in the village in an unlawful manner, or in such a manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public.
   B.   Notice of the hearing provided for in subsection A will be given in
writing to the applicant or license holder as the case may be.
      1.   The notice will be mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, to the applicant or license holder, as the case may be, at
his last known address at least five days prior to the date set for hearing.
The date of such mailing will be deemed the date of such notice.
      2.   The applicant or license holder, as the case may be, will have the
right to be represented at the hearing by counsel.
   C.   Any applicant or license holder, as the case may be, aggrieved by the
action of village officials in refusing to issue any license or in revoking any
license already issued will have the right to appeal to the village's
architectural board of review.
      1.   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the village building codes
supervisor of the village within fourteen (14) days after the action complained
of, a written statement fully setting forth the grounds of appeal.
      2.   The architectural board of review will set a time and place for a
hearing on such appeal and notice of the hearing will be given to the appellant
in the same manner as provided in subsection B(1).
      3.   The appellant will have the right to be represented at the hearing
by counsel.
      4.   The decision of the architectural board of review on appeal will be
final and conclusive.
      5.   No license will be revoked during any of the following:
         a.   During the pendency of an appeal before the architectural board
of review;
         b.   While litigation is pending in any court challenging the
architectural board of review's action;
         c.   While any appeal is pending from any court's action overring or
reversing the architectural board of review's action; or
         d.   During the time within which such appeal from the court's action
can lawfully be taken. (Ord. 2025-5, 2-10-2025)
3-15-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation that engages in the business of contractor
without first obtaining a license in accordance with this chapter, who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter, will, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense; and a separate and distinct offense will be deemed
to be committed every day on which such person, firm or corporation continues
to operate contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2025-5, 2-10-2025)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Public Nuisances Declared
4-1-3: Public Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-4: Special Vehicle Provisions
4-1-5: Various Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-6: Spring Traps Prohibited
4-1-7: Abatement Procedure; Costs; Lien
4-1-8: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given to them in this section. All terms, phrases and words
used in this chapter but not defined in this section shall have the meanings
given to them elsewhere in this code.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for hire or
not for hire, that is either:
A.   In excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds in gross weight (including
vehicle and maximum load) ("class I commercial vehicle"); or
B.   Less than eight thousand (8,000) pounds in gross weight (including vehicle
and maximum load) and has: 1) property that is stored and/or transported in a
manner that is not safe or not completely enclosed within the vehicle; and/or
2) exterior commercial signage ("class II commercial vehicle").
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is incapable of being driven or used for
the purpose or use for which it was designed.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle or boat originally designed for living
quarters, recreation or human habitation and not used as a commercial vehicle,
specifically including, but without limitation, the following:
   Boats and other watercraft
   Camper trailers
   Motorized homes
   Off the road vehicles
   Racing cars or racing cycles
   Snowmobiles
   Tent trailers
   Travel trailers
   Truck campers
   Vehicle trailers
UNCOMPLETED BUILDING: Any building or structure, or any part thereof, for
which:
A.   A lawfully issued building permit has expired and has not been renewed
within three (3) months after the date of expiration; and
B.   No certificate of occupancy can lawfully be, or has lawfully been, issued.
UNLICENSED VEHICLE: Any vehicle without a current and valid license plate and a
current and valid village vehicle sticker.
UNSAFE BUILDING: Any building or structure, or any part thereof, that:
A.   Falls within the definition of unsafe structure as set forth in the
section of the most current adopted edition of the international building code;
or
B.   Is or has been vacant or abandoned for a period of thirty (30) days or
more and is inadequately guarded from unauthorized entry.
VEHICLE: Any device for carrying passengers, goods, or equipment, specifically
including, but without limitation, passenger automobiles, vans, trucks, buses,
recreational vehicles, commercial vehicles, and other vehicles used for
commercial, business, or governmental purposes.
WEEDS: Poison ivy, jimson, burdock, ragweed (giant), ragweed (common), thistle,
cocklebur, blue vervain, common milkweed, wild carrot, wild mustard, rough
pigweed, lamb's quarters, wild lettuce, wild hemp, and other like vegetation
that, due to pollination, are a menace to health or are otherwise injurious to
the public health or welfare. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
4-1-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES DECLARED:
A.   Specific Public Nuisances: The following are hereby specifically declared
to be a public nuisance:
1.   Generally: Any act, occupation, omission, condition, place, thing or use
of property that shall:
a.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health or safety of
the public; or
b.   Render the public insecure in life or in the use of public or private
property; or
c.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
d.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render dangerous
for passage any street, alley, sidewalk, highway, navigable body of water or
other public way.
2.   Recreational Vehicle Storage In Residence District:
a.   Private Property: Outdoor parking or storage of a recreational vehicle on
private property in a residence district for more than five (5) consecutive
days, or for more than five (5) days within any thirty (30) day period, unless
the recreational vehicle is parked in the rear or side yard of the lot and does
not substantially impair the supply of light or air to adjacent properties.
b.   Public Property: Outdoor parking or storage of a recreational vehicle on
public property in a residence district between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; provided, however, that the owners or
occupants of residential lots on which off street storage of recreational
vehicles is impossible may park or store a recreational vehicle on the street
in front of their lot for a period of not more than five (5) consecutive days,
or not more than five (5) days within any thirty (30) day period.
3.   Commercial Vehicle Storage In Residence District:
a.   Private Property: Outdoor parking or storage of a class I or a class II
commercial vehicle on private property in a residence district for more than
forty eight (48) consecutive hours, or for more than forty eight (48) hours
within any seven (7) day period.
b.   Public Property: Outdoor parking or storage of a commercial vehicle on
public property in a residence district between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
4.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicles: Outdoor parking or storage of an
unlicensed or inoperable vehicle on public or private property in a residence
district.
5.   Buildings:
a.   Uncompleted: Any uncompleted building.
b.   Unsafe: Any unsafe building.
6.   Weeds, Grass: Unkempt weeds, grass, or plants (other than trees, bushes,
flowers, or other ornamental plants or farm or garden crops) with a height in
excess of eight inches (8").
7.   Diseased Trees: Any "diseased tree", as defined in section
10-11-9 of this code.
8.   Garbage, Offensive Substances, Junk, Dismantled Vehicles: The uncovered
depositing, dumping, abandoning, accumulating or storing of any offensive
substance, trash, garbage, ashes, junk or dismantled vehicle (or parts
thereof), offal or carcasses of dead animals or any other miscellaneous waste
or refuse. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995)
9.   Leaf Blower And Powered Landscape Equipment Operation 1 : The operation of
any nonelectric backpack mounted, handheld, or wheel mounted leaf blower
("regulated leaf blower") or any powered (gas or electric) lawn maintenance
equipment, including, but not limited to, lawn mowers, trimmers, and tractors,
except during the following hours: Monday through Friday: eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. - six o'clock (6:00) P.M., and Saturday/Sunday/holidays: nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. - six o'clock (6:00) P.M.; provided, however, that this limitation
shall not apply to the use of:
a.   Equipment for the removal of snow, including, without limitation,
snowblowers, plows or power shovels; and
b.   The use of a regulated leaf blower or other nonelectric power equipment:
(1)   For golf course maintenance;
(2)   For ordinary public property maintenance activities occurring at least
one hundred feet (100') from the lot line of any residence;
(3)   For cleanup activities necessary as a result of extreme weather or other
emergency conditions as determined and authorized in advance by the village
administrator; or
(4)   For landscape maintenance activities performed by property owners on
their own property between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and dusk ("exempt
maintenance activities").
10.   Contagious or Infectious Disease: To intentionally or recklessly engage
in any activity that promotes the spread of contagious or infectious diseases
throughout the Village, including, without limitation, the intentional or
reckless maintenance of unsanitary conditions, intentionally or recklessly
hosting gatherings or conducting business in violation of public health orders,
and the intentional or reckless failure to maintain or operate properties in
compliance with health and safety codes, regulations, ordinances, and orders.
This paragraph 10 of subsection
4-1-2 shall run concurrently with the Village President's March 18, 2020,
Declaration of Emergency, and shall apply only while such Declaration is in
effect.
11.   Unscheduled bus stops of intercity buses, in violation of Section
6-8-2 of this Code.
B.   Provisions Not Limiting: The identification of the public nuisances
identified in this section shall not be construed to exclude other acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things from constituting or being identified
by the village as public nuisances. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995; amd. Ord. 2016-4, 2-
22-2016, eff. 4-2-2016; Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020; Ord. 2024-2, 1-8-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-7A-7B5 of this code.
4-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain, or permit to exist
any public nuisance, including specifically, but without limitation, the public
nuisances set forth in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, within the village or within the police jurisdiction of
the village. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995)
4-1-4: SPECIAL VEHICLE PROVISIONS:
The following standards and regulations shall apply to vehicles:
A.   Permanent Location Prohibited: No vehicle stored outdoors on a lot in a
residence district or on public property shall have its wheels removed or be
affixed to the ground so as to prevent the vehicle's ready removal.
B.   Residential Use Prohibited: No vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping
or housekeeping purposes at any time while parked or stored in the village.
C.   Utility Hookups: No vehicle shall be connected to any public utility at
any time, except for required servicing.
D.   Unsafe Conditions: No vehicle shall be parked or stored anywhere in the
village so as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition. The ground under or
surrounding the location wherein any vehicle is parked or stored shall be free
from weeds, debris or combustible material. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995)
4-1-5: VARIOUS NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person within the limits of the
village: (1970 Code § 49.01)
A.   Offensive Odors: To so negligently conduct any business or use any
premises as to create such an offensive odor as may taint the air and render it
unwholesome or disagreeable to the neighborhood. (1970 Code § 49.02)
B.   Offensive Noises: To produce or permit to be produced, in or upon any
premises, or upon any street or public place, any offensive noise to the
disturbance of the peace or quiet of the neighborhood, or of any person
residing in the vicinity of such premises. (1970 Code § 49.03)
C.   Deposits Of Offensive Matter:
1.   Watercourses And Wells: To throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or
deposited, any offal or other offensive matter, or the carcass of any animal
into any watercourse, pond, spring or well, or into Lake Michigan within one
mile of any portion of the shore of said lake, lying within the limits of the
village. (1970 Code § 49.04)
2.   Streets And Public Ways: To deposit any nightsoil, dead animal or other
filthy, offensive or noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway,
park or other place. (1970 Code § 49.05)
D.   Unwholesome Drinking Water: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or
prejudice of others. (1970 Code § 49.06)
E.   Obstructing Navigable Waters: To obstruct or impede, without legal
authority, the passage of any navigable waters. (1970 Code § 49.07)
F.   Encroachment Upon Public Ways; Dirt On Pavements: To obstruct or encroach
upon public highways, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, wharves and
landing places, or to cause or suffer to be drawn, deposited or remain, any
mud, dirt or filth upon any paved street in the village. (1970 Code § 49.08)
G.   Offensive Or Unwholesome Businesses:
1.   Prohibited: To establish, maintain and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business within the limits of the village or within one mile of the
limits thereof. (1970 Code § 49.09)
2.   Packinghouses, Renderies; Permission Required: To locate and carry on
without having obtained permission of the board of trustees to do so any
manufactories, steam laundry, packinghouses, renderies, tallow chandleries,
glue or bone factories, soap factories or tanneries within the village and
within the distance of one mile without the village limits. (1970 Code § 49.21)
H.   Cemeteries; Burials: To establish a cemetery, or to bury any person within
the village limits or within one mile thereof, outside of an established
cemetery. (1970 Code § 49.12)
I.   Dangerous Buildings; Inspection: To permit any building, structure or
place to remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health or
safety in any way. Any such structure, building or place is hereby declared to
be a nuisance. No building or other premises which has been vacant or
untenanted continuously for a period of six (6) months or more shall be
occupied or otherwise used until the same has been inspected by the building
commissioner and a certificate of safety issued by such commissioner as herein
provided. If, upon such inspection, the commissioner shall find said building
or other premises to be in a safe condition, he shall issue such certificate
forthwith; otherwise, he shall specify in what respect said premises is not
safe, and such certificate shall not issue until such unsafe condition shall
have been corrected. At the time the application for such inspection is made,
the applicant shall pay the building commissioner an inspection fee in the
amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "construction/building fees". (1970
Code § 49.13; amd. 2009 Code)
J.   Gas Appliances Improperly Vented Or Safeguarded:
1.   Venting: To permit to exist in any building, house or premises in which
gas water heaters, gas clothes driers, gas incinerators, central house heating
gas appliances, space heaters (except radiant types unless the radiant type
consumes more than 30 Btu per hour per cubic foot of room content), are
maintained and used, unless the same are vented to a properly operating flue.
(1970 Code § 49.14)
2.   Safeguarding: To permit to exist in any building, house or premises
wherein gas appliances burning such a quantity of gas that the surrounding
atmosphere will be vitiated to an extent dangerous to life and health are
maintained and used, and where every automatically controlled gas appliance is
not properly safeguarded against the hazard resulting from extinction or
flashback of the burner flame, unless such appliances shall be connected to an
effective flue. (1970 Code § 49.15)
K.   Endangering Public Health: To commit or do any act which endangers the
public health or results in annoyance or discomfort to the public. (1970 Code §
49.16)
L.   Common Drinking Cups: To maintain any common drinking cup or cups, dipper
or other similar utensil for the use of more than one person in any public
hall, theater, store or other place frequented by the public. (1970 Code §
49.17)
M.   Offensive Premises: To keep or suffer to be kept in a foul, offensive,
nauseating or filthy condition, any chicken coop, cow house, stable 1 , cellar,
vault, drain, pool, sewer or sink upon any premises belonging to or occupied by
such person. (1970 Code § 49.18)
N.   Deposits Of Organic Or Combustible Matter: For any person, either as
owner, lessee, agent, tenant or otherwise, to throw, cast or deposit, or to
cause or permit to run, drop or remain, or to be thrown, cast, or deposited,
any decomposable organic matter which might act as a breeding place for flies
or as food for rats, discarded things capable of holding water which might
serve as a breeding place for mosquitoes, or combustible matter which might
serve to increase the fire hazard of neighboring property in or upon any vacant
lot or land, enclosed or otherwise, within the village, except at such place or
places designated or provided by the board of trustees; provided, that garbage,
manure, offal and other putrescible matter may be temporarily kept in suitable
cans, vessels, tanks or containers which are watertight and provided with
tightly fitting covers. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as to
prohibit the depositing of manure upon any private property for the purpose of
cultivating the same. (1970 Code § 49.19)
O.   Stagnant Water: For any person, either as owner, lessee, agent, tenant or
otherwise, to permit or allow in or upon any vacant lot or premises within the
limits of the village, any water to collect or lie stagnant in which mosquito
larvae breed, or are likely to breed. (1970 Code § 49.20)
P.   Houses Of Ill Fame: To maintain, frequent or patronize any house of ill
fame or house of assignation, where men and women resort for the purposes of
prostitution. (1970 Code § 49.22)
Q.   Privies: For any person to erect or maintain any privy within the limits
of the village. (1970 Code § 49.23)
R.   Keeping Swine: To keep or suffer to be kept any swine in any enclosure or
pen in the village so as to be offensive to those residing in the vicinity.
(1970 Code § 49.24)
S.   Slaughtering Animals: To slaughter any meat cattle, hogs, or sheep, or
keep, maintain or use any house or place in which the business of slaughtering
any of said animals may be carried on in the village, without first having
obtained a permit so to do from the board of trustees; except, that the owner
of animals may slaughter them for his own use upon his own premises without
such permit. (1970 Code § 49.25)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-9A-5 of this code.
4-1-6: SPRING TRAPS PROHIBITED:
A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit to be
used in the village any jump animal trap or similar device with spring
activated jaws, made out of steel or other hard substance, of the type commonly
used for the trapping of furbearing animals, which is capable of inflicting
cruelty upon dogs or cats or other types of animals, or which constitutes a
hazard to small children.
B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon a conviction thereof, be fined in an amount of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each such trap that is laid or used shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. 83-23, 12-12-1983; amd. 2009 Code)
4-1-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; COSTS; LIEN:
A.   Inspection: The village administrator may inspect or cause to be inspected
any premises upon which it is believed that a public nuisance exists, and a
written report shall be made of the inspection.
B.   Emergency Abatement: If a public nuisance on private property constitutes
immediate danger to public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the
village administrator may direct the police chief to serve a notice on the
owner, or, if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining the nuisance and to post a copy of the notice on the
premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining the nuisance to abate or remove the nuisance within
twenty four (24) hours. The notice shall also state that if the nuisance is not
abated within twenty four (24) hours, the village may cause the nuisance to be
abated and will charge the costs of such abatement to the person to whom the
notice was sent. The village administrator may employ such village resources as
are necessary to abate or remove the nuisance.
C.   Court Ordered Abatement: If a public nuisance on private property does not
constitute an immediate danger to public health, peace, morals or decency, the
village administrator may cause an action to abate such nuisance to be
commenced in any court of proper jurisdiction in the name of the village.
D.   Cost Of Abatement: In addition to any other penalty or fee imposed by this
code for the erection, contrivance, creation, maintenance or continuance of a
public nuisance, the cost of abating a public nuisance by the village shall be
collected as a debt from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or
maintaining the nuisance.
E.   Special Lien Authorization: The costs and expenses incurred by the village
to abate any public nuisance may be made a lien on the property on which any
such public nuisance is located pursuant to, and to the fullest extent provided
by, Illinois law. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995)
4-1-8: PENALTY:
The owner of property on which a public nuisance is located, or the person
causing, permitting or maintaining a public nuisance, shall, upon conviction
therefor, be subject to a fine for the violation of this chapter of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such violation and for each day such violation
exists. (Ord. 95-3, 2-27-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WASTE AND RECYCLING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Services Required; Exclusive Franchises; Exemptions
4-2-3: Acceptable Containers
4-2-4: Presentation Of Materials For Collection
4-2-5: Waste Nuisances
4-2-6: Abatement At Owner’s Expense; Lien
4-2-7: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given herein:
ACCEPTABLE CONTAINERS:     Containers for the temporary storage of scavenger materials for collection that
                           meet one or more of the criteria provided in Section
                           An individual commercial, industrial, institutional entity, or building containing
                           four or more residential dwelling units that is not otherwise receiving garbage,
                           recycling, and/or organic material hauling services through the Village’s
COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER:       residential franchise agreement and that is authorized by law to receive such
                           franchise services from the Village. The owners or occupants of a mixed-use
                           building containing three or fewer residential dwelling units are commercial
                           customers.
CURBSIDE:                  An accessible location no closer than two feet nor farther than five feet from the
                           street pavement edge directly in front of the property to be serviced.
                           An exclusive agreement to provide scavenger services to one or more classes of the
FRANCHISE:                 Village’s occupants that may be awarded by the Village pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-
                           19-1 and the Village’s home rule authority.
FRANCHISEE:                The specific scavenger awarded a Franchise.
                           The owner or occupant of any single-family dwelling, townhome, or multi-family
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER:      dwelling of 3 or less units. Owners or occupants are of mixed-use buildings
                           containing three or fewer residential dwelling units are commercial customers.
SCAVENGER:                 A firm providing Scavenger Services within the Village.
SCAVENGER SERVICES:        The collection, transportation, and disposal of any scavenger materials.
SCAVENGER MATERIALS:       The following classes of materials:
   i.    MUNICIPAL WAGarbage, refuse, industrial, lunchroom or other waste, and other material as
                           described in 415 ILCS 5/3.290;
                           Aluminum cans, tin, steel and bi-metal cans; clear, green and brown glass bottles
                           and jars; newspapers, magazines, and mixed papers (junk mail, chipboard, white and
   ii.    RECYCLABLE colored paper, brown Kraft paper bags); corrugated cardboard, #1 PETE plastic
MATERIALS:                 containers and #2 HPDE plastic containers, #3-#5 plastic containers and bags,
                           aseptic beverage containers, and other materials accepted for recycling and not
                           for disposal at a landfill or incinerator; and,
                           All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs, aquatic
   iii.   ORGANIC    weeds, and other material accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
MATERIALS:                 shrubbery, vines and trees, and as otherwise described at 415 ILCS 5/3.270; as
                           well as food scraps and other garbage that is capable of being composted and as
                           further defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.197. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
                           The collection, transportation, and disposal of any of the following:
                           i.   Construction and demolition debris, as defined in and subject to the
                           recycling regulations provided by Title 9, Chapter 17 of this Code.
                           ii.   Waste deposited in temporary “roll-off” containers commonly used when moving
                           into, vacating, or renovating a property, or for other temporary needs.
SPECIALIZED SERVICES:      iii.   Waste types that the applicable Village exclusive franchisee are not
                           required to collect (but may voluntarily collect pursuant to a private
                           arrangement) such as, without limitation, services concerning the collection,
                           transportation, and disposal of: appliances; automotive parts; or hazardous wastes
                           as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 United States Code
                           6901-6992k. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-34, 11-14-2022)
 
4-2-2: SERVICES REQUIRED; EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISES; EXEMPTIONS:
A.   Scavenger Services Required. Every person or legal entity in possession of
any premises in the Village shall cause accumulations of scavenger materials to
be disposed of no less frequently than once every seven days by a licensed
scavenger. The use or occupancy of any premises shall be prima facie evidence
that scavenger materials are being produced and accumulating on the premises.
B.   Scavenger License Required. No scavenger services may be provided within
the Village except by a scavenger duly licensed by the Village pursuant to
Title 3, Chapter 4 of this Code. No person or legal entity other than a
scavenger may remove any scavenger materials placed out for collection by a
resident, tenant, and/or owner of a premises which is intended for collection
by a scavenger.
C.   Exclusive Residential Franchise. Scavenger services for residential
customers may only be provided pursuant to a franchise. Franchisees will
directly bill and charge the Village for the cost of basic waste collection
services under the franchise. The franchise may provide for a residential
customer to receive optional additional services, which shall be billed by the
franchisee to the person or legal entity requesting such services. The
franchisee shall be responsible for billing and collecting all charges for
services above the cost of basic waste collection services, and shall keep an
accurate record of all the premises served, including the address and amounts
collected from each. The franchisee shall assume any and all delinquent
accounts for services above the cost of basic waste collection services.
D.   Exclusive Commercial Franchise. Commencing November 1, 2022, except as
otherwise provided in this Section, scavenger services for commercial customers
may only be provided pursuant to a franchise. Provision of scavenger services
to a customer in violation of this Section shall be an offense chargeable to
both the customer and the scavenger. The penalty for violation of this Section
shall be as set forth in Section
1-12-3 of this Code.
E.   Billing and Fees. The fees for Scavenger Services shall be as provided in
Section
1-12-3 and shall be billed by the Franchisee in accordance with the terms of
the franchise.
F.   Specialized Services Exempted. A person or legal entity may if offered,
but is not required to, use a franchisee for any specialized services.
Construction or demolition debris generated within the Village is subject to
recycling.
G.   Exemption Requests from Commercial Franchise. Any person or legal entity
occupying a commercial property subject to a Franchise may file a written
request with the Village Administrator for an exemption from the franchise. The
request shall be accompanied by appropriate documentation specifying and
demonstrating the circumstances that necessitate the exemption, which may
include, without limitation:
1.   The requestor’s business is subject to a corporate contract for Scavenger
Services, the provisions of which are outside the requestor’s control;
2.   The requestor is subject to a written and binding contract for Scavenger
Services with a Scavenger previously licensed by the Village, which contract
was effective prior to August 1, 2021;
3.   The requestor’s business requires specialized services that cannot be
provided under the Franchise; or
4.   Exceptional hardship.
The Village Administrator shall either grant or deny the exemption, in his sole
and absolute discretion, within 30 days after receipt of a request. Any person
or legal entity denied an exemption may appeal the denial in writing to the
Village Board of Trustees within ten days after the date of the Village
Administrator’s written denial. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-34,
11-14-2022)
4-2-3: ACCEPTABLE CONTAINERS:
A.   Materials Must Be Stored in Acceptable Containers. Every person or legal
entity in possession of any premises in the Village shall provide a sufficient
number and capacity of containers to store any generated Scavenger Materials
until they are collected. No container may be used to store Scavenger Materials
unless it is one or more of the following:
1.   A covered container provided by a Franchisee for automated waste and
recycling collection.
2.   For Residential Properties only, a durable metal or plastic container with
a tight-fitting cover that is rodent-proof, fly-proof, waterproof, and leak-
proof. Such a container may not exceed 32 gallons in size and must be provided
with handles on the cover and two sides.
3.   For Organic Materials only, a biodegradable paper “kraft”-type bag not
exceeding 32 gallons in size.
4.   For exempt commercial customers only, any equivalent or specialized
covered container(s) provided by the Scavenger serving the property.
5.   A temporary roll-off container with an open or closed top may be used to
store construction and demolition debris, Scavenger Materials generated while
occupying or vacating a property, or other similar temporary needs.
B.   Maintenance of Waste Containers. All containers shall be maintained clean
and in good order and repair. Filthy, leaking or defective containers shall be
cleaned, repaired, or replaced by the owner or occupant of the premises at his
or her expense. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
4-2-4: PRESENTATION OF MATERIALS FOR COLLECTION:
A.   Materials Must Be Presented in Acceptable Containers; Exceptions. No
person or legal entity may present scavenger materials for collection outside
of an acceptable container, except that, for residential customers:
1.   Organic materials such as limbs that cannot reasonably be placed in an
acceptable container may be securely tied with biodegradable string or twine in
bundles not to exceed four feet in length and 24 inches in diameter.
2.   Individual bulky items that are too large or heavy to reasonably be placed
in an acceptable container may be placed at the curb for collection, but only
where a Scavenger has agreed, whether pursuant to a franchise or by arrangement
with an individual customer, that such an item will be collected within the
time limits prescribed by this Section.
B.   Preparation of Materials. Any scavenger materials presented for collection
shall be placed, wrapped, or secured in such a manner as not to be blown or
scattered by the wind. Containers shall be kept securely closed or covered.
Municipal waste must be securely bagged or wrapped to limit any spillage should
the container become uncovered or overturned.
C.   Location and Time of Collection.
1.   Residential Customers. Except for residential customers that have made
separate arrangements with their scavenger, each residential customer shall
cause all scavenger materials to be presented at the curbside for collection.
No person or legal entity shall place any scavenger materials curbside for
collection earlier than 4:00 P.M. on the day prior to a collection or to allow
any containers to remain curbside later than the day that collection occurs.
2.   Commercial Customers. Commercial customers shall store all containers in a
designated area approved by the Architectural Board of Review pursuant to
Section 10-4-2(H). For legal non-conforming properties where no such area has
been designated, commercial customers shall store all acceptable containers in
an area that is (i) paved and accessible for a scavenger’s trucks; (ii) not
visible from any public or private street; and (iii) not in any other location
so as to cause a public or private nuisance or danger. Such containers shall
not be presented at the curbside for collection and instead shall be collected
from their storage location; except that, where approved by the Architectural
Board of Review, containers may be placed at the curb subject to the
restrictions applicable to residential customers. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
4-2-5: WASTE NUISANCES:
It shall be a violation of this Code and is hereby declared a public nuisance
for any person or legal entity to, whether willfully or by negligence:
A.   Allow scavenger materials to accumulate in such a manner that they attract
rats, flies, or vermin or otherwise create a danger to the health or safety of
the Village or any person.
B.   Deposit, place, or dump in any manner whatsoever any scavenger materials
or construction or demolition debris or any other thing in or upon any
sidewalk, street, alley, parkway, park, stream or body of water, ravine, bluff,
beach, school, private property, public place, or other public right of way,
whether or not a “No Dumping” sign is posted on said property, except: (i) as
necessary for collection by a scavenger; (ii) at Village facilities provided
for the drop-off of scavenger materials, but only when deposited in compliance
with the posted rules and regulations of the facility; or (iii) when done
temporarily in the necessary course of trade for a period not to exceed two
hours.
C.   Deposit or place any scavenger materials in another person or legal
entity’s private collection containers; or to place scavenger materials
generated outside the Village in a collection container.
D.   Burn or bury any scavenger materials within the Village except as provided
in Chapter 3 of this title.
E.   Place for collection, except with the knowledge and consent of a Scavenger
and in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations, any:
radioactive, volatile, corrosive, highly flammable, explosive, biomedical,
infectious, biohazardous, toxic, or hazardous material as defined by applicable
federal, state, or local laws or regulations including, but not limited to, the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901-6992k.
F.   To store or present for collection any Scavenger Materials except in the
manner provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
4-2-6: ABATEMENT AT OWNER’S EXPENSE; LIEN:
A.   If the owner of any private property in the Village upon which there is
deposited any scavenger materials in violation of this Chapter refuses or
neglects to remove such scavenger materials within five days after receiving
written notice from the Village Administrator to do so, the Village may remove
the same and may collect from the owner the reasonable cost thereof. If the
Village Administrator determines that these conditions create an immediate
hazard to the public health, safety, and welfare, the Village Administrator may
order abatement immediately and without prior notice.
B.   If the owner fails to pay the Village’s costs and expenses incurred within
60 days of a written demand to do so, either the Village or the contractor
performing work on the Village’s behalf may cause a lien to be filed against
the property as provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13 or pursuant to such other
authority available to the Village. Any lien filed pursuant to this Section may
be foreclosed in the manner provided for mortgages or mechanics’ liens under
Illinois law.
C.   The payment or lien of the Village’s abatement costs is in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any penalty provided for a violation of this Chapter. (Ord.
2021-14, 7-12-2021)
4-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person or legal entity who violates any provision of this Section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine for the violation of this Section
of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this code for each such violation and for each day such violation
exists. (Ord. 2021-14, 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Open Burning Authorized By Permit For Natural Area Management Only
4-3-3: Open Burning Permit Requirements
4-3-4: Rules And Regulations For Permitted Open Burning
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given to them in this section. All terms, phrases, and words
used in this chapter but not defined in this section shall have the meanings
given to them elsewhere in this code.
BURN AREA: The location of open burning as designated in an open burning
permit.
FIRE CHIEF: The fire chief of the village or his or her designee.
GARBAGE: Any refuse, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, discarded paper,
wrappings, or similar materials; waste resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, and waste from the handling,
processing, storage, and sale of produce; and any other combustible waste,
refuse or rubbish.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass clippings, shrubbery and vine
cuttings, leaves, tree limbs, and other materials accumulated as the result of
the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines, trees, and other natural landscaping.
NATURAL AREA MANAGEMENT: Prescribed open burning conducted for the purpose of
maintaining the growth of vegetation in a designated natural area.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion or burning of any matter in the open or in an open
dump, excluding burning that the fire chief determines is conducted solely
within a residential recreational fire pit.
OPEN BURNING PERMIT: A permit for open burning issued by the fire chief
pursuant to this chapter.
PRESCRIBED BURNING 1 : A form of open burning consisting of the planned
application of fire to naturally occurring vegetative fuels under specified
environmental conditions and following appropriate precautionary measures,
which causes the fire to be confined to a predetermined area and accomplish the
planned land management objectives. (Ord. 2013-21, 9-23-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 525 ILCS 37/10.
4-3-2: OPEN BURNING AUTHORIZED BY PERMIT FOR NATURAL AREA MANAGEMENT ONLY:
A.   Prescribed Burning For Natural Area Management Authorized By Permit: Open
burning is permitted in the village only for the purposes of conducting
prescribed burning for natural area management and only pursuant to an open
burning permit.
B.   All Other Open Burning Prohibited: Open burning of landscape debris or
garbage or for any purpose other than prescribed burning for natural area
management is prohibited, provided, however that burn piles of natural area
cuttings and trimmings may be considered by the fire chief for inclusion in the
permitted burning activity.
C.   Permit Required; Violations: Any open burning conducted without a permit
shall be considered a violation of this chapter and is hereby declared a public
nuisance. The village may pursue all available remedies at law concerning a
violation of this chapter including, without limitation, the revocation of such
permit and the imposition of those fines and penalties set forth in section
4-3-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-21, 9-23-2013)
4-3-3: OPEN BURNING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Application And Required Data: Prior to issuance of any open burning
permit, the person requesting the open burning permit must submit an
application to the fire chief that includes the following information:
1.   A complete and validly issued permit issued by the Illinois environmental
protection agency, or such other agency as may have jurisdiction, authorizing
the applicant to conduct open burning, including all pages of the issued permit
and all application materials submitted to the state of Illinois in applying
for such state permit.
2.   A map and aerial photograph of the proposed burn area clearly showing the
boundaries of the proposed burn area, including, without limitation, depictions
of all fire lanes and/or containment methods which will be used to prevent the
spread of fire beyond the proposed burn area.
3.   A list of the persons who will be in charge of the open burning and their
fire control experience with acknowledgment that those persons must be on
location at the burn area for the duration of the open burning. The person in
charge of the open burning must make an in person report to the village's
public safety dispatch personnel confirming a valid in force permit is on file
and wind and weather conditions are within the allowable range, and,
immediately after completion of the open burning, must make an in person report
to the village's public safety dispatch personnel confirming that the fire is
completely extinguished.
4.   A list of similar open burning performed by the applicant in the past
year, if any, including the communities, size of burn area and fire department
with which coordination was accomplished.
5.   A list of equipment that will be on location of the burn area throughout
the burn.
6.   The proposed primary date and proposed alternate dates to be used if
conditions are not acceptable on the primary date of the burn, the proposed
time of the burn and an estimate of length of time for the burn activities.
7.   Proof of general liability insurance policy in the amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and a minimum of two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate naming the village as additionally insured party with
no endorsements or modifications limiting the coverage provided to the village
concerning the open burning activities being requested, in a form acceptable to
the village.
8.   Confirmation that notice to adjoining residents will be provided by the
applicant as required pursuant to subsection 4-3-4D of this chapter, including,
without limitation, a sample of the notices to be sent.
B.   Inspection Of Area: The burn area must be inspected by the fire chief
prior to issuance of an open burning permit, and all areas to be burned, if so
directed by the fire chief, must be cleared of all growth of an average height
of more than twenty four inches (24") (except for native trees which are not
planned to be affected by the proposed burn), with the cut debris removed from
the site and properly disposed of prior to issuance of the permit. Upon
approval of an open burning permit, areas with growth exceeding this limit may
be burned if, on inspection, the fire chief determines this will not
significantly increase the potential hazard of the burn in the specific area
involved.
C.   Evaluation Of Permit Application: The fire chief shall, in his sole
discretion, approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application for an
open burning permit. The fire chief may deny any application for an open
burning permit when the fire chief determines that the proposed open burning
would present an unreasonable hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
If any application for an open burning permit is denied, the applicant may
appeal such denial to the village administrator pursuant to subsection 4-3-4G
of this chapter.
D.   Conditions On Issuance Of Permit; Conditions; Multiple Sites; Term;
Renewal:
1.   Conditions: If the fire chief determines that an open burning permit
should issue, the fire chief may establish such conditions or restrictions on
that permit as he deems reasonable and necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare.
2.   Multiple Sites: Multiple physically adjoining sites of up to ten (10)
acres each may be covered in the same permit provided that all such sites
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
3.   Term; Renewal: Permits are valid only for a period of ninety (90) days
from the date of issuance. The fire chief may, but shall not be obligated to,
renew a permit for an additional period of up to ninety (90) days. (Ord. 2013-
21, 9-23-2013)
4-3-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PERMITTED OPEN BURNING:
A.   Notice To Fire Department: The permittee must contact the fire department
for final approval the morning of the proposed burn.
B.   Hours Restricted: Burning will only be allowed during daylight hours.
C.   Wind And Weather Conditions: Burning will only be allowed when the wind
speed, as determined by the fire chief or his designee, is greater than five
(5) miles per hour, but not greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour. Allowable
wind direction may be specified by the fire chief in the issued permit if the
fire chief determines that downwind areas may be negatively impacted by the
proposed burn. Notwithstanding the wind speed requirements of this subsection,
if the fire chief or his designee determines that specific weather conditions
on the day of the burn will result in open burning causing a threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the fire chief or his designee may, in his
or her sole discretion, cancel or reschedule the planned open burning or
immediately halt a burn if already in progress.
D.   Notice To Adjoining Residents: All residents adjoining all property for
which the open burning permit is sought shall be notified of the open burning
by the permittee in writing at least seventy two (72) hours in advance of the
proposed burn. Such notice shall give the location of the proposed burn, the
primary date and any approved alternate dates of the burn, approximate times
and length of burn and provide a telephone number that the resident can call to
receive further information if desired. The permittee shall concurrently
provide a copy of this notice to the fire chief. If any such neighboring
resident shall advise the village that persons residing in his or her household
have a medical condition which may be aggravated by the proposed burn, the
permittee will be required to notify such person the morning of the burn,
before commencement of the burn activity, provided the person is at home. Based
on the information specified in the permit application and any information
provided by residents adjoining the property for which the permit is sought,
the fire chief may require that notice, as specified above, be provided to
additional residents as the department deems appropriate. Those additional
residents requiring notification will be listed on the permit when issued or
added by modification to an issued permit should they become known after
issuance of the permit. The fire chief will take any comments by neighboring
residents into account when determining whether the open burning permit should
issue.
E.   Mutual Aid; Fees:
1.   The permit holder shall be responsible to pay the village the complete
cost of any response by the Lake Bluff fire department, or any other fire
department requested by the Lake Bluff fire department for mutual aid, due to
an emergency response to contain an open burn, including, without limitation,
the use and deployment of engines, grass fire trucks, manpower, equipment or
supplies, each at the costs, charges and fees set out in section
1-12-3 of this code.
2.   The determination as to need of the response of fire units to an open burn
will be made by the fire chief, provided that the permit holder can request
fire department response for an emergency.
F.   Revocation Or Termination: If the fire chief determines that the permit
holder of an open burning permit has not complied with any aspect of this
chapter, or that any ongoing open burning presents an unreasonable hazard to
the public health, safety and welfare, the fire chief may immediately revoke
the open burning permit and such permit shall be of no further force or effect.
G.   Appeal: A permit applicant or permit holder may appeal a decision of the
fire chief under this chapter by filing a written application with the village
administrator. The village administrator must issue a written decision within
fifteen (15) days after receipt of the appeal from the permit applicant. That
decision must be transmitted promptly to the applicant. A failure of the
village administrator to issue a written decision within fifteen (15) days will
be deemed a denial of the appeal. All decisions by the village administrator
are final.
H.   Disaster Burning: Open burning pursuant to the declaration of a natural
disaster shall be permitted as approved by the village board pursuant to their
authority to declare a natural disaster under state and federal law and shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise specified by the
village board pursuant to its declaration of such natural disaster. (Ord. 2013-
21, 9-23-2013)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine for the violation of this section of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such violation and for each day such violation
exists. (Ord. 2013-21, 9-23-2013)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Administration And Enforcement Officials
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Nuisance Declared
4-4-4: Liability For Abatement Of Nuisance
4-4-5: Use, Storage Or Production Of Hazardous Materials
4-4-6: Movement Of Hazardous Materials
4-4-7: Disposal Of Hazardous Materials
4-4-8: Disclosure Requirements
4-4-9: Posting Notices
4-4-10: Penalty
4-4-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The fire prevention bureau of the village is charged with the administration of
the provisions of this chapter and shall enforce the same in coordination with
the fire chief and the chief of police of the village. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, the following definitions are
hereby established:
DISCHARGE: Leakage, seepage or other release.
FACILITY, EQUIPMENT OR VEHICLES: Includes private, governmental or commercial
in nature whether by motor vehicle, truck, aircraft, railroad, boats, ships or
any means of transportation, storage or use.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: A substance or material in a quantity and form determined
by the Illinois department of transportation, the United States department of
health, education and welfare, or by the United States department of
transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health and
safety or property.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ACCESS ROUTE: Any street which has been designated pursuant
to this chapter for the purpose of providing vehicular access from the primary
hazardous material route to locations within the village where hazardous
materials are used, produced, or stored. The following named streets are hereby
designated as hazardous materials access routes:
   Albrecht Drive
   Carriage Park Avenue
   North Shore Drive
   Sherwood Drive
   Sherwood Terrace
PERSON: Any natural person or individual, governmental body, firm, association,
partnership, copartnership, joint venture, company, corporation, joint stock
company, trust, estate or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns, and includes public or private utilities,
governmental bodies or agencies other than the village of Lake Bluff, common
carriers, railroads, airplanes and ships and boats.
PRIMARY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROUTE: Includes only the following streets in the
village:
A.   U.S. Route 41 (Skokie Highway).
B.   Illinois State Route 43 (Waukegan Road).
C.   Illinois State Route 176 (Rockland Road) west of the westerly right of way
freight line railroad tracks of Union Pacific railway.
D.   Sheridan Road from the northern limits of the village to East Scranton
Avenue.
E.   Scranton Avenue from Sheridan Road easterly to Evanston Avenue.
TOXIC SUBSTANCE: Any substance, mixture, or compound containing a substance
which is listed in:
A.   The code of federal regulations, 29 CFR 1910.1000 through 1910.1500,
inclusive, and all amendments thereto.
B.   820 Illinois Compiled Statutes 255/1 et seq., and all amendments thereto.
C.   The United States department of health and human services, public health
service national toxicology program, second annual report on carcinogens -
December 1981 and its periodic updates. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988; amd. 2009 Code;
Ord. 2014-21, 10-27-2014)
4-4-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
A.   Within Village: The actual or threatened discharge of hazardous materials
within the village is hereby declared a nuisance.
B.   Outside Village: The actual discharge of hazardous materials outside the
corporate limits of the village which permeates or discharges into any portion
of the village is hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-4: LIABILITY FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
A.   Within Village: Any person who owns, leases, operates or controls any
facility or equipment, whether by railway, air, land or water, or vehicles,
including private, governmental or commercial, from which a discharge of
hazardous materials has occurred or threatened to occur in the village shall be
liable jointly and severally to the village for any expenses incurred by the
village in connection with preventing, cleaning up or disposing of or
attempting to prevent, clean up or dispose of any such discharge or threatened
discharge. This provision shall not release the owner of the hazardous material
from a simultaneous liability for cleanup or disposal.
B.   Outside Village: Any person who owns, leases, operates or controls any
facility, equipment or vehicles from which a discharge of hazardous materials
has occurred outside of the village and which permeates or discharges in any
part of the village, shall be liable jointly and severally to the village for
any expenses incurred by the village in connection with preventing, cleaning up
or disposing of or attempting to prevent, clean up or dispose of any such
discharge. This provision shall not release the owner of the hazardous material
from a simultaneous liability for cleanup or disposal. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-5: USE, STORAGE OR PRODUCTION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
Every person who uses, produces or stores hazardous materials or toxic
substances at any location within the village shall abide by and operate in
conformance with all of the requirements and provisions of the regulations and
directives therefor promulgated by the fire prevention code of the village as
set forth in section
5-3-3 of this code, as amended, and shall abide by and operate in conformance
with all of the provisions of title III (emergency planning and community right
to know) of the super fund amendment and reauthorization act (SARA) of the
United States code. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-6: MOVEMENT OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
A.   Use Of Certain Streets Required:
1.   It shall be unlawful to move or transport in any way, any "hazardous
materials", as defined in section
4-4-2 of this chapter, within the village except upon the streets heretofore
designated as primary hazardous materials routes or hazardous materials access
routes.
2.   Every motor vehicle which displays or is required to display a hazardous
materials placard shall be operated within the village only on the primary
hazardous materials route established pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
B.   Request For Route:
1.   Every person who uses, produces or stores hazardous materials at a
location within the village shall request from the fire department a hazardous
materials access route to and from such location.
2.   Every operator of a motor vehicle which displays or is required to display
a hazardous materials placard who does not know the primary hazardous materials
routes of the village or the hazardous material access route to and from the
location in the village from which he is coming or to which he is destined
shall request directions concerning said routes from the fire department before
operating said vehicle in the village.
C.   Assignment Of Route: Any person who uses, produces, or stores hazardous
materials at a location within the village shall be assigned a hazardous
materials transportation route after he has submitted a request for such a
route to the village fire department on a form provided by the fire department.
Upon receipt of such a request, the fire department shall assign to such person
a route which, in the judgment of the fire department and all other interested
departments, is consistent with and implements the purpose of this chapter.
D.   Streets Designated: No motor vehicle which displays or is required to
display a hazardous materials placard shall be operated on any street within
the village other than U.S. Route 41 (Skokie Highway) or Illinois State Route
43 (Waukegan Road), Illinois State Route 176 (Rockland Road) east of Skokie
Boulevard, Sheridan Road from the northern limits of the village to East
Scranton Avenue, and Scranton Avenue from Sheridan Road east to Evanston Avenue
unless such vehicle is coming from or destined for a location within the
village on an approved access route as provided for herein.
E.   Certain Vehicles Exempt: The following types of vehicles are exempt from
the provisions of this section:
1.   Placarded vehicles making residential deliveries of home heating fuel.
2.   Placarded vehicles making residential deliveries of medical supplies.
3.   Placarded vehicles which are not required under the provisions of this
chapter to request a hazardous materials access route, that are picking up or
delivering nonhazardous materials at a location within the village, may use the
most direct route to and from the location as close as possible to said
location on the primary hazardous materials route or a hazardous materials
access route assigned to a business in the vicinity of said location. (Ord. 88-
22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-7: DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of hazardous
materials within the village unless such disposal is conducted in accordance
with applicable local, state and federal rules and regulations pertaining to
the disposal of such materials.
B.   Nuisance Declared: The unlawful disposal of hazardous materials within the
village is hereby declared a nuisance.
C.   Liability For Abatement: Any person who engages in the unlawful disposal
of hazardous materials within the village shall be liable to the village for
any and all expenses in connection with cleaning up and lawfully disposing of
said materials. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-8: DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
Every person who uses, produces, transports or stores hazardous materials or
toxic substances at a location within the village shall provide the fire chief
with all information concerning the use, production and storage of such
materials, which such person is required to provide to the local fire
department under all governing laws and regulations enacted or promulgated from
time to time by either the state of Illinois or the United States of America
and departments thereof. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988)
4-4-9: POSTING NOTICES:
The village administrator shall cause the posting of notices at each entrance
to the village giving notice to vehicular traffic of the regulations contained
in this chapter. Said notice shall be by signs erected in accordance with the
standards and specifications as required by law or the statutes of the state of
Illinois or any other regulatory body having jurisdiction. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-
1988)
4-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined in an amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation exists or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 88-22, 4-25-1988; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SMOKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Introduction
4-5-2: Title; Purpose
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Applicability Of Smoke Free Illinois Act
4-5-5: Prohibitions And Exceptions
4-5-6: Signs And Ashtrays
4-5-7: Owner And Occupant Responsibility
4-5-8: Penalty
4-5-1: INTRODUCTION:
Smoking creates the hazard of injury to the personal health of those in the
environment of such smoke as well as the potential damage to property which may
result from the combustible nature of such substance. It has been determined
that breathing ambient smoke is a health hazard to both smokers and nonsmokers.
Cigarette smoking also produces several substances that are considered
hazardous to health including carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide, nitrous oxide
and formaldehyde. Secondhand smoke (68 percent of the smoke produced by a
cigarette) affects the health of the bystander, interfering with respiratory
tract defenses, often causing nonsmokers to have allergic or irritative
reactions, and is a known cause of lung cancer.
The use of e-cigarettes, as an alternative to smoking traditional cigarettes,
has proliferated in recent years. Although often marketed as safe, the United
States food and drug administration has issued a caution related to e-
cigarettes because the safety and efficacy of e-cigarettes have not been fully
researched and studied, and it is not known if the use of e-cigarettes may lead
young people to try tobacco products, including conventional cigarettes, which
are known to cause disease and lead to premature death.
Because the hazards of smoking and the use of e-cigarettes have a potentially
harmful effect, material and direct, on the public health, safety, welfare,
comfort and property of residents of the village, it is, therefore, necessary
and desirable to establish regulations that prohibit smoking and the use of e-
cigarettes in all enclosed public places, in all places of employment, and in
certain unenclosed public places. (Ord. 2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-2: TITLE; PURPOSE:
This chapter may be cited as the LAKE BLUFF SMOKING BAN ORDINANCE, the purpose
of which is to protect the public health, comfort and environment by
prohibiting smoking and the use of e-cigarettes in all enclosed public places,
all places of employment, and in certain unenclosed public areas, in order to
ensure that nonsmokers may breathe air free from the hazardous effects of
secondhand smoke. (Ord. 2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following words or phrases are used, they shall, for purposes of
this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except when
the context otherwise indicates. If a word or phrase is not specifically
defined in this section, it shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the
smoke free Illinois act.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT: The area defined as such by the village of Lake
Bluff zoning map.
E-CIGARETTE: An electronic device that typically includes a mouthpiece, a
heating element or atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits; provides a gas
derived from a liquid that includes nicotine, propylene glycol, or similar
substance and perhaps other substances; and is inhaled by a user in a manner
that simulates or resembles smoking. The term "e-cigarette" includes all manner
of these devices, regardless of the details of a device's appearance or
marketed name, that are manufactured to resemble a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
other smoking device. The term "e-cigarette" includes the cartridges and
component parts of an e-cigarette, individually or in any combination.
ENTRANCE:
A.   The doorway or other entrance to a public place that is open to, and
intended for use by, the general public for ingress and egress to the public
place; and
B.   The doorway or other entrance to a place of employment that is open to,
and intended for use by, the general public or business invitees for ingress
and egress to a place of employment, or where employees are required or
permitted to enter or exit.
LAKE BLUFF GOLF COURSE: A public 18-hole golf course owned by the Lake Bluff
park district, which is located at 355 Washington Street in Lake Bluff,
Illinois.
OUTDOOR EATING AREA: A seating area open to the air that is accessory to a
restaurant.
OUTDOOR VENUE: An outdoor theater, amphitheater, plaza, street or other
improved area that is used as a public venue or forum to which members of the
general public are invited to listen, view or otherwise participate in an event
that is organized, licensed or permitted by the owner of the venue, and
including, without limitation, parking lots located on the same property as the
theater, amphitheater, plaza, street, or other improved area.
PARK GROUNDS: All unenclosed areas of a park, beach or playground: a) that is
owned or operated by the village, the park district of Lake Bluff, or a public
school district; and b) to which members of the general public have been
granted a right of access. Park grounds shall include, without limitation,
parking lots located on the same property as the park or playground.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting open to the public pursuant to the Illinois open
meetings act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq.
SCHOOL GROUNDS: All unenclosed areas of property on which a public or private
school, or school related use, is located, which areas shall include, without
limitation, parking lots located on the same property as the public or private
school or school related use.
SMOKE FREE ILLINOIS ACT: The smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 82/1 et seq., as may be amended.
VILLAGE GREEN: The village owned parcel located within the central business
district that is surrounded by Scranton Avenue, Sheridan Road and Center
Avenue. (Ord. 2008-8, 4-28-2008; amd. Ord. 2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-4: APPLICABILITY OF SMOKE FREE ILLINOIS ACT:
The village hereby acknowledges that the smoke free Illinois act is applicable,
and is in full force and effect, within the village. No person shall smoke, or
use an e-cigarette, in any place in the village within which smoking is
prohibited pursuant to the smoke free Illinois act. In the event of a conflict
between the smoke free Illinois act and the provisions of this chapter, the
most restrictive provision shall control. (Ord. 2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-5: PROHIBITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
A.   Unenclosed Public Places: No person shall smoke, or use an e-cigarette, in
the following unenclosed public places:
1.   Outdoor venues;
2.   Park grounds;
3.   School grounds;
4.   Public transportation loading areas and platforms;
5.   Public golf driving ranges;
6.   The Lake Bluff Golf Course, except for those areas on the golf course
located at least seventy five feet (75') from the clubhouse building;
7.   Village owned parking lots;
8.   Outdoor eating areas; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not
apply to any person who is temporarily in any portion of an outdoor eating area
that is located on a public sidewalk for the sole purpose of walking or
traversing through such area;
9.   Public sidewalks within twenty five feet (25') of an outdoor eating area;
provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to any person who is
temporarily in such area for the sole purpose of walking or traversing through
such area;
10.   The Village Green; and
11.   Gasoline or fuel stations.
B.   Entrances: Smoking, and the use of e-cigarettes, shall be prohibited
within twenty five feet (25') of an entrance to any place (enclosed or
unenclosed) within which smoking is prohibited; provided, however, that this
prohibition shall not apply to any person who is temporarily in such area for
the sole purpose of walking or traversing through such area.
C.   Public Meetings: Smoking, and the use of e-cigarettes, shall be prohibited
in all public meetings.
D.   Common Residential Areas: No person shall smoke, or use an e-cigarette, in
any common or public place (including, without limitation, lobbies, hallways,
reception areas, public restrooms, and elevators) of any apartment building,
condominium, dormitory building, nursing home, long term care facility, or
other multiple-family residential structures; provided, however, that smoking,
and the use of e-cigarettes, shall be permitted in semiprivate rooms in a
nursing home or long term care facility of which all of the occupants: 1) are
smokers and/or habitual users of e-cigarettes; and 2) have requested in writing
to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking, and/or the use of e-
cigarettes, is permitted. (Ord. 2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-6: SIGNS AND ASHTRAYS:
Each owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of any place within
which smoking or the use of e-cigarettes is prohibited pursuant to this chapter
shall:
A.   Signs Posted: Conspicuously post signs indicating that smoking is
prohibited in the same manner as is described in sections 20(a) and 20(b) of
the smoke free Illinois act; provided, however, that in the event that there is
no clearly defined entrance to a place within which smoking is prohibited
pursuant to this chapter, such signs shall be posted on or adjacent to an
existing identification sign located on the property; and
B.   Ashtrays Removed: Remove all ashtrays from the place within which smoking
is prohibited, in the same manner as is described in section 20(c) of the smoke
free Illinois act. (Ord. 2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-7: OWNER AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner, occupant, or lessee of
any place where smoking or the use of e-cigarettes is prohibited pursuant to
this chapter to permit smoking or the use of e-cigarettes in that place. (Ord.
2015-15, 9-28-2015)
4-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates section
4-5-4,
4-5-5 or
4-5-6 of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. Each day on which a violation of
this chapter occurs or exists shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2008-8, 4-28-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LEAF BLOWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1:   Purpose And Intent
4-6-2:   Definitions
4-6-3:   Use Of Leaf Blowers
4-6-4:   Use Of Leaf Blowers For Spraying Pesticide Prohibited
4-6-5:   Exceptions
4-6-6:   Penalty
4-6-1:   PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote sustainable landscape practices in
the Village by transitioning from the use of gas-powered leaf blowers to the
use of other more sustainable methods and means. (Ord. 2023-5, 3-13-2023)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given to them in this section. All terms, phrases and words
used in this chapter but not defined in this section shall have the meanings
given to them elsewhere in this Code.
 
ELECTRIC LEAF BLOWER:    Any leaf blower that is powered solely by electricity.
GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWER: Any leaf blower that is powered by gasoline or
                         propane.
                         Includes both stand-alone fossil fuel powered
PORTABLE GENERATOR:      generators and generators powered by vehicle engines.
                         (Ord. 2023-5, 3-13-2023)
 
4-6-3:   USE OF LEAF BLOWERS:
A.   Gasoline powered or propane powered leaf blowers may not be used during
the following days of the year: May 15 to September 30.
B.    Electric leaf blowers may continue to be used with no seasonal
restrictions.
C.    The use of portable generators to power electric leaf blowers or to
recharge leaf blower batteries is prohibited.
   Leaf blower usage is prohibited on all recognized national holidays. (Ord.
2023-5, 3-13-2023)
4-6-4:   USE OF LEAF BLOWERS FOR SPRAYING PESTICIDE PROHIBITED:
The use of any type of leaf blower to spray pesticide is prohibited. (Ord.
2023-5, 3-13-2023)
4-6-5: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
A.   Prior to April 1, 2025, public parks, school playgrounds, and athletic
fields;
B.   In-play areas of public golf courses;
C.   Construction projects involving paving, repair, or patching of public
streets; and
D.   Cleanup activities necessary as a result of extreme weather or other
emergency conditions as determined and authorized in advance by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 2023-5, 3-13-2023)
4-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person or legal entity who violates any provision of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine for the violation of this section
of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each such violation and for each day such violation
exists. (Ord. 2023-5, 3-13-2023)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established; Composition
5-1-2: Chief Of Police And Deputy Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Police Officers
5-1-3A: Part-Time Police Officers
5-1-4: Auxiliary Police
5-1-5: Police Pension Fund Contributions
5-1-6: Penalty
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
A.   Membership: There is hereby created and established a department of the
village to be known as the police department which shall be under the
supervision of the village administrator. The police department shall consist
of a chief of police, a deputy chief of police if determined by the board of
trustees, and such number of police officers of grade and rank as may be deemed
necessary and proper by the board of trustees, employed pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the board of fire and police commissioners of the village.
B.   Chief Of Police And Deputy Chief Of Police: The chief of police and deputy
chief of police shall be employed as provided in section
1-6F-1 of this code, and the terms of their employment shall be as determined
by the board of trustees.
C.   Reduction In Number Of Police Officers: The board of trustees may, in its
discretion, reduce the number of police officers. In that event, any employment
made shall be terminated in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
board of fire and police commissioners then in effect, relating thereto, based
upon seniority and other applicable requirements imposed by law.
D.   Part-Time Police Officers: There is created the position of part-time
police officer; a position of employment of the village. Part-time police
officers will be appointed, disciplined, and discharged by the village
administrator and chief of police and will have the powers and duties set forth
in this chapter. Part time police officers will not be assigned, under any
circumstances, to supervise or direct full time police officers of the police
department. The number of part-time police officers serving the village will be
determined by the village administrator, with the advice and consent of the
corporate authorities. (Ord. 2014-4, 2-24-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-6, 4-9-2024)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE AND DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE:
A.   Chief Of Police:
1.   Bond: The chief of police shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
village treasurer a bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
in the usual form, or as is or shall hereafter be provided by law, with good
and sufficient surety to be approved by the village board of trustees, and the
cost of the premium of said bond to be borne by the village, said bond
conditioned on the faithful performance of his official duties.
2.   Oath: The chief of police shall also take the customary oath of office
before entering upon the duties of such office.
3.   Powers And Duties: The chief of police shall:
a.   Be the commanding officer of all sworn police officers and civilian
personnel employed by the village in the police department. The chief of police
shall perform such duties as are imposed upon him by law or ordinance and, in
addition thereto, such other duties as may be assigned to him by the village
administrator. He shall, under the supervision of the village administrator,
pursuant to guidance from the village board of trustees, have full management
and control of the police department, and all regulations and orders of the
police department shall be promulgated through him. The chief of police shall
see that all members of the police department are prompt and faithful in the
discharge of their duties and that they take such measures as may be deemed
expedient for the preservation of peace and good order and the enforcement of
the laws and ordinances of the village.
b.   Cause the public peace to be preserved and to see that the laws and
ordinances are enforced, and whenever any violation thereof shall come to his
knowledge, or be reported to him, he shall attend to the prosecution of the
offender.
c.   Be the custodian of all property provided for the use of the police
department and shall also be the custodian of all stolen goods or other
property received and retained by police authority.
d.   Be the keeper of the village public safety building and its jail and shall
have the custody of all persons incarcerated therein.
e.   Report to the village attorney all breaches of the village ordinances as
in his judgment require village attorney attention, and shall aid the attorney
in the prosecution thereof.
f.   Pay to the proper custodian thereof, all monies collected by him within
two (2) days after receiving the same.
g.   Report in writing to the village administrator at the beginning of each
month, the activities of the police department, and such other information he
deems necessary or appropriate, and such other information requested by the
village administrator.
B.   Deputy Chief Of Police:
1.   Oath: The deputy chief of police shall take the customary oath of office
before entering upon the duties of such office.
2.   Powers And Duties: The deputy chief of police shall:
a.   Have those powers, duties, and responsibilities as established by the
chief of police in consultation with the village administrator, pursuant to the
rules and regulations of the police department.
b.   Have, in the absence of the chief of police, all of the powers, duties,
and responsibilities of the chief of police as authorized by state statute and
this code.
C.   Residency: All newly appointed chiefs of police and deputy chiefs of
police of the village shall reside within the village within twelve (12) months
after the date of their appointment unless otherwise authorized by the board of
trustees. (Ord. 2014-4, 2-24-2014)
5-1-3: POLICE OFFICERS:
A.   Qualifications:
1.   All members of the police department shall be United States citizens and
meet such additional qualifications as established from time to time by the
board of fire and police commissioners.
2.   Police personnel shall reside either in the village limits or within a
radius of ten (10) miles of the village limits within twelve (12) months after
the date of their appointment to the police department.
B.   Neglect Of Duty: Any sworn member of the police department who shall
neglect or refuse to perform any duty required by ordinance of the village or
who, in the discharge of his duties, shall be guilty of fraud, extortion,
oppression, favoritism, wilful wrong or injustice, shall be subject to
disciplinary action before the board of fire and police commissioners of the
village. (1988 Code § 7-1A-3)
5-1-3A: PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
A.   Appointment. The village administrator and chief of police may appoint
part-time police officers as employees in such number as the board of trustees
will approve. In making such appointments, the village administrator and chief
of police, in their discretion, may consult with the board of police and fire
commissioners. Part-time police officers will be members of the regular police
department, except for pension purposes. Part-time police officers may not be
used as permanent replacements for permanent full time police officers.
B.   Background Check. Prior to appointment, a part-time police officer will be
subject to a background check, including without limitation a fingerprinting
verification by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Illinois State
Police, Bureau of Identification. No person who has been convicted of a felony
or other crime involving moral turpitude may be appointed as a part-time police
officer. The chief of police in their discretion may administer any other
additional tests allowed by state law or required for full-time police officers
for part-time police officer applicants.
C.   Qualifications. Part-time police officer applicants must meet the
qualifications established from time to time by the village administrator in
consultation with the chief of police.
D.   Training. Part-time police officers will be trained under the
Intergovernmental Law Enforcement Officer's In-Service Training Act, 50 ILCS
720/1 et seq., as amended, in accordance with the procedures for part-time
police officers established by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards
Board.
E.   Hiring Standards. The following standards will apply at the time of
application:
   1.   The applicant must be twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
   2.   The applicant must possess a diploma from an accredited high school or
a General Equivalency Diploma (GED).
   3.   The applicant must have the following qualifications:
      a.   United States citizenship.
      b.   Valid Class D Illinois driver's license.
      c.   No felony convictions or disqualifying criminal histories.
      d.   Eye sight of not worse than 20/100 correctable to 20/20.
   4.   The applicant must satisfy all other requirements for part-time police
officers required pursuant to the laws of the State of Illinois.
F.   Powers and Duties.
   1.   Part-time police officers will be assigned to perform duties by the
chief of police.
   2.   Part-time police officers at all times during the performance of their
duties will be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police.
Part-time police officers will be subject to discipline and discharge by the
chief of police.
G.   Compensation. Part-time police officers will be paid an hourly wage for
each hour of service that is performed at the direction of the chief of police.
H.   Coverage by Worker's Compensation. Part-time police officers will be
considered employees of the village and, as employees, will be covered by the
village's worker's compensation insurance. (Ord. 2024-6, 4-8-2024)
5-1-4: AUXILIARY POLICE:
A.   Appointment: The village administrator may, with the advice and consent of
the village board of trustees, appoint auxiliary police officers in such number
as the village administrator shall from time to time deem necessary.
B.   Supervisory Authority: Such auxiliary police officers shall at all times
during the performance of their duties be subject to the direction and control
of the chief of police.
C.   Duties: Such auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular
police department. Such auxiliary police officers shall not supplement members
of the regular police department in the performance of their assigned and
normal duties, except as otherwise provided herein. Such auxiliary police
officers shall only be assigned to perform the following duties:
1.   To aid or direct traffic.
2.   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters.
3.   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the chief of police;
provided, that in cases which render it impractical for members of the regular
police department to perform the normal and regular police duties, the chief of
police is hereby authorized to assign auxiliary police officers to perform such
normal and regular police duties.
D.   Identification: Identification symbols worn by such auxiliary police
officers shall be different and distinct from those used by members of the
regular police department.
E.   Firearms: Such auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms except
with the permission of the chief of police, and while in uniform and in the
performance of their duties.
F.   Conservators Of The Peace: Such auxiliary police officers when on duty
shall also be conservators of the peace and shall have the powers as specified
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25.
G.   Training: Auxiliary police officers, prior to entering upon any of their
duties, shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other
police procedures as shall be appropriate in the exercise of the powers
conferred upon them under this section, which training and course of study
shall be determined and provided by the chief of police.
H.   Fingerprinting; Background Check: Prior to the appointment of any
auxiliary police officer, fingerprints shall be taken, and no person shall be
appointed as such auxiliary police officer if he has been convicted of a felony
or other crime involving moral turpitude. (1988 Code § 7-1A-4)
5-1-5: POLICE PENSION FUND CONTRIBUTIONS:
A.   Employee contributions to the police pension fund shall be paid by the
village on behalf of all employees enrolled in the fund upon receipt of a
ruling from the internal revenue service that, pursuant to section 414(h) of
the United States internal revenue code, such employer paid contributions are
not included as gross income until they are distributed or made available.
B.   The payment shall be made by reducing the gross earnings payable to
employees by the amount of the contributions and by making payment of such
amount directly to the fund.
C.   Contributions, although designated as employee contributions, are being
paid by the employer in lieu of contributions by the employee.
D.   The employee does not have the option of choosing to receive the
contributions directly instead of having them paid by the employer to the plan.
(Ord. 92-31, 11-23-1992)
5-1-6: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the
maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. (1988 Code § 7-1A-5; amd. 2009
Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Established; Composition; Duties
5-2-2: Compensation
5-2-3: Fire Chief
5-2-4: Officers Of Department
5-2-5: Fees For Services Outside Corporate Limits
5-2-6: Prohibited Acts
5-2-7: Penalty
5-2-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; DUTIES:
A.   Department Established; Composition: There is hereby established a
department of the municipal government of the village which shall be known as
the fire department and which shall embrace one fire chief, fire officers, a
secretary, a treasurer and the members of the fire department. (1988 Code § 8-
1-1)
B.   Duties Generally: The fire department shall respond and assume control of
all fires and other situations that threaten the lives or property of the
residents of the village, except those that are the duties of the police
department. (1988 Code § 8-1-1; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2-2: COMPENSATION:
The board of trustees may, from time to time, by resolution or ordinance,
provide for such compensation for the fire chief and members of the fire
department as it deems just and reasonable. (1988 Code § 8-1-2)
5-2-3: FIRE CHIEF 1 :
A.   Employment And Dismissal:
1.   Term Of Employment: A person shall be employed by the village as fire
chief and shall be the head of the fire department. Such employment shall be by
ordinance or resolution of the board of trustees and shall continue until a
successor shall be employed.
2.   Authority To Discharge: The village president shall have the right to
discharge the fire chief; provided, that the president shall report such
discharge to the board of trustees at their next regular meeting. If such
discharge is not concurred by a majority of the members present at said
meeting, the fire chief shall be reemployed.
B.   Powers And Duties:
1.   Manage Department; Employ And Remove Members: The fire chief shall have
the management and control of all matters and things pertaining to said fire
department. The fire chief shall employ and remove officers and members of the
fire department. Appeals to the termination of any officer or member may be
made to the village administrator.
2.   Authority And Control: The fire chief shall have sole and absolute control
and command over all persons connected with the fire department of the village
while on duty.
3.   Establish Rules And Regulations: The fire chief shall possess full power
and authority over the fire department organization, government and discipline,
and to that end may prescribe and establish, from time to time, such rules and
regulations as deemed advisable, subject to the approval of the village
administrator.
4.   Custody Of Equipment: The fire chief shall have the custody of the
engines, equipment and property belonging to the fire department.
5.   Investigate Fires; Right Of Entry: The fire chief or other fire department
members as designated by the fire chief shall investigate the cause and origin
of all fires and other incidents responded to by the fire department, as well.
The fire department shall have the right to enter upon the premises where an
emergency has occurred to perform such investigation.
6.   Submit Reports: The fire chief shall submit a monthly report to the board
of trustees, via the village administrator, listing the number and types of
fire department responses, training received by the fire department members,
and any unusual occurrences. In addition, an annual report shall be submitted
in January of each year to the board of trustees through the village
administrator, showing the total annual responses by the fire department by
category, description of buildings and property destroyed or damaged, and any
other information, statistics or suggestions the fire chief feels the board of
trustees should know regarding the response capabilities of the fire
department, and the causes and origins of fires responded to by the fire
department.
7.   Attend Fires: It shall be the duty of the fire chief, if the chief is
able, to attend all fires happening in the village, and in case of the absence
of the fire chief from any fire, it shall be the duty of another officer to
take charge of the department, and during the absence of the chief, such
officer shall have and exercise all the powers of the fire chief.
8.   Examine Dangerous Buildings: The fire chief shall examine all buildings or
walls reported dangerous or damaged by fire or accident and shall, whenever
necessary, make a report of the condition thereof to the board of trustees.
9.   Prescribe Limits At Emergency Scene: The fire chief, or other officer in
command, may prescribe limits in the vicinity of any emergency scene, within
which only those given permission by a fire department officer may go, and the
police department shall, on request of the fire chief or other officer in
command, enforce the provisions of this subsection B9.
10.   Remove Property: The fire chief, or other officer in command, may cause
the removal of any property whenever it shall become necessary for the
preservation of such property from fire, or to prevent the spreading of fire,
or to protect adjoining property. The fire chief may direct the members of the
fire department to cut down or remove any building, erection, fence or trees
for the purposes of checking the progress of any fire. (1988 Code § 8-1-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-6G-1 of this code.
5-2-4: OFFICERS OF DEPARTMENT:
A.   Secretary: A secretary of the fire department shall be elected by the
members of the fire department at a meeting to be held in May of each year. The
secretary shall keep a record of all meetings of the fire department and
perform such other duties as directed by the fire chief.
B.   Treasurer:
1.   Election And Duties: A treasurer of the fire department shall be elected
by the members of the fire department at their regular meeting held in May of
each year. The treasurer shall keep a record of all monies received on account
of the foreign fire insurance tax and keep such monies separate and apart from
all other funds. The proceeds of said foreign fire insurance tax shall be paid
out only on checks signed by the fire chief and treasurer after an
authorization vote of the majority of members present at a regular or special
fire department meeting. (1988 Code § 8-1-5)
2.   Bond: The village shall secure a bond to be executed by the treasurer to
the village. The premiums for such bond shall be paid for by the village. The
penal sum of said bond shall be equal to twice the amount of the funds expected
to be produced from the foreign fire insurance tax. The treasurer shall submit
all records for the foreign fire insurance tax to the auditors designated by
the village board whenever requested. (1988 Code § 8-1-5; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2-5: FEES FOR SERVICES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS:
A.   Services Provided On Fee Basis: Subject to the provisions contained in
subsection C of this section, fire protection service shall be afforded on a
fee basis as provided for herein to those residents and entities in those
portions of Shoreacres, Arden Shore North and Arden Shore South not situated
within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 92-15, 7-13-1992)
B.   Fees:
1.   Responses And Services: The fees for the following responses and services
shall be pursuant to the service agreement:
a.   Each fire engine dispatched to an out of district emergency.
b.   Each pickup truck dispatched to an out of district emergency.
c.   Each individual dispatched to an out of district emergency.
d.   The cost of any supplies used or expended during an emergency incident
including, but not limited to, foam, salvage covers, etc.
e.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, minimum charge
for calls, whether genuine or false. (Ord. 92-15, 7-13-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
2.   Proration: No proration will be made for a part of an hour on any of the
above fees.
C.   Response At Discretion Of Department Officer: No response will be made by
the fire department to fire calls from owners of property outside the corporate
limits of the village in the event of prior or coincident fire calls involving
property located in the village, or if, for any reason, in the judgment of the
officer then in charge at the headquarters of the fire department, such
response would jeopardize fire protection service to the village. (Ord. 92-15,
7-13-1992)
5-2-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A.   Refuse To Obey Orders; Hindering Firefighters: All persons who are present
at an incident shall be subject to the orders of the fire chief and other
officers of the fire department. In case any person shall refuse to obey any
such orders, such person shall be fined as provided for herein. Any person who
shall wilfully offer any hindrance to any officer or firefighter in the
performance of his duty at an emergency incident, or who injures, destroys or
defaces any fire department equipment shall, for each offense, be fined as
provided for hereinafter.
B.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over unprotected
equipment of the fire department unless directed or permitted by a member of
the fire department. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
subsection shall be responsible for the cost of damage or repair or replacement
of such equipment, and the fine provided in section
5-2-7 of this chapter.
C.   Obstructing Fire Hydrants: No person shall in any manner obstruct the use
of any fire hydrant, or have or place any material within five feet (5') in any
direction of said fire hydrant. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this subsection shall be fined as provided in section
5-2-7 of this chapter. (1988 Code § 8-1-3)
5-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 8-1-6; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU
SECTION:
5-3-1: Established; Composition
5-3-2: Duties
5-3-3: Fire Prevention Code Adopted
5-3-4: Exemptions
5-3-5: Police Powers Of Village
5-3-6: Hazardous Waste Regulations Enforcement
5-3-7: Prosecution Does Not Relieve Compliance
5-3-8: Violations; Penalty
5-3-1: ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established in the village a bureau of fire prevention. The
members of the bureau of fire prevention shall consist of the chief of the fire
department, fire inspectors of the fire department, and village trustees who
are members of the public safety committee. (1988 Code § 8-2-1)
5-3-2: DUTIES:
A.   Enforce Laws: It shall be the duty of the bureau of fire prevention to
enforce all laws and ordinances of the village having as their object, or
relating to, the prevention of fires and the preservation of lives and property
of the residents of the village.
B.   Recommendations To Village Board: It shall be the further duty of the
bureau of fire prevention to investigate and to recommend to the board of
trustees such additional ordinances or amendments to existing ordinances as
shall be deemed necessary for safeguarding life and property in the village.
C.   Investigations: The bureau of fire prevention shall cause to be made an
investigation of all buildings, structures or places used for manufacturing,
storage or commercial purposes, or occupied or frequented by large numbers of
people, including, but not limited to, all school buildings, public halls,
churches, hospitals, theaters, hotels, apartment buildings and all other places
of amusement, recreation or employment, for the purposes of determining the
safety of the occupants of such buildings, structures or places, in the event
of fire, panic or accident.
D.   Review Building Plans And Specifications:
1.   Review Of Plans: The bureau of fire prevention shall cause to be reviewed
all plans for new or altered premises in the village, with the exception of
single-family or two-family residences, and determine if any occupancy permit
may be issued prior to occupancy of such premises.
2.   Noncompliance; Notice To Remedy: In case it shall be found that any
village ordinance is not being complied with, the fire inspector shall give
written notice to the owner, occupant, lessee or person in charge or control of
such premises to make such changes or alterations to bring the premises into
compliance with village ordinances within fifteen (15) days from date of
notice.
3.   Issue Citation: In case such violations are not corrected within the
specified time shown on the notice of violation, a citation shall be issued to
the violator by the inspector.
4.   Right Of Entry: For the purposes of inspection, a fire inspector may enter
any building or premises within the village for the purpose of inspection under
the provisions of this chapter.
E.   Require Key Boxes: Whenever access to a structure will be unduly difficult
because of secured openings, and where immediate access will be required for
lifesaving and fire protection purposes, the chief of the fire department or
the fire prevention bureau may require a key box to be installed in a readily
accessible location. The key box shall be of a type approved by the chief of
the fire department or the fire prevention bureau. (1988 Code § 8-2-2)
5-3-3: FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED:
In order to provide for rules and regulations for the purpose of enforcement of
this title, and establishment of the standards of safety, and the protection
against fire and other hazards, there is hereby adopted by this chapter, the
fire prevention code of the National Fire Protection Association, NFPA, 2004
edition, and its incorporated standards and codes as published in the national
fire codes of the National Fire Protection Association and listed in annex A of
the NFPA fire prevention code for the year 2004. The same are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, except as otherwise
provided herein to the contrary. Whenever the term "fire prevention code of the
National Fire Protection Association, NFPA", is used herein, such reference
shall be to said code currently in effect, and all amendments thereto. Not less
than one copy of the adopted issue of the fire prevention code of the National
Fire Protection Association, NFPA, and the adopted standards and codes of the
national fire code shall be filed in the office of the village clerk, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the village. (1988 Code § 8-2-3;
amd. 2009 Code)
5-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Except as provided in subsection 5-3-2D of this chapter to the contrary, the
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to one- or two-family dwellings.
(1988 Code § 8-2-4)
5-3-5: POLICE POWERS OF VILLAGE:
This chapter shall be deemed in the exercise of the police powers of the
village for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety
and welfare and all the provisions hereof shall be liberally construed for that
purpose. (1988 Code § 8-2-5)
5-3-6: HAZARDOUS WASTE REGULATIONS ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Fire Prevention Bureau: It shall be the duty and responsibility of the
fire prevention bureau of the village to administer the hazardous materials
ordinances and regulations of the village 1 .
B.   Fire Chief: The fire chief shall manage, control and command all persons
in carrying out such responsibilities and, in coordination with the chief of
police, shall enforce the ordinances and regulations of the village. (Ord. 88-
21, 4-25-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 4 of this code.
5-3-7: PROSECUTION DOES NOT RELIEVE COMPLIANCE:
Prosecution of any owner or occupant of any violation of this chapter shall not
relieve such person from compliance with this chapter or any provision hereof.
(1988 Code § 8-2-6)
5-3-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or the code
hereby adopted, or who shall fail to comply therewith or who shall build in
violation of any details, statements, specifications or plans submitted or
approved thereunder, or shall operate not in accordance with the provisions of
any certificate, permit or approval issued thereunder, or who shall fail to
comply with any order of the bureau of fire prevention or its inspectors,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not less than seventy
five dollars ($75.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation, nor shall the violation be permitted to continue. Each
and every day a violation is allowed to continue or exist shall be deemed a
separate violation of this chapter. (1988 Code § 8-2-7; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Designation Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
5-4-2: Notice To Village Board Prior To Designating An Authorized Emergency
Vehicle
5-4-1: DESIGNATION OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Pursuant to section 1-105 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-105, the Village Administrator shall have the authority to
designate vehicles operated by the Village's Police and Fire Chiefs and Deputy
Chiefs as "authorized emergency vehicles", as defined by the Illinois Vehicle
Code. Upon a vehicle's designation as an authorized emergency vehicle, such
vehicle shall have the authorities and rights granted to authorized emergency
vehicles by the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101,
et seq., and any other applicable State Statutes. The Village Administrator
shall also have the authority to revoke such designation. (Ord. 2018-28, 11-12-
2018)
5-4-2: NOTICE TO VILLAGE BOARD PRIOR TO DESIGNATING AN AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY
VEHICLE:
The Village Administrator shall notify the Village Board within seven (7) days
upon designating a vehicle an authorized emergency vehicle pursuant to section
5-4-1 of this chapter. Upon receipt of the notice submitted by the Village
Administrator, or any time thereafter, the Village Board shall have the
authority to revoke such designation by resolution duly adopted. (Ord. 2018-28,
11-12-2018)
CHAPTER 5
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Declaration Of Civil Emergency
5-5-3: Orders By The Village President
5-5-4: Notice
5-5-5: Term; Extension; Termination
5-5-6: Violations; Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the definitions set forth in the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act 1 , as amended, shall be applicable unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
 
                 A "Disaster" as defined in the Illinois Emergency Management
                 Agency Act, as amended. Specifically, and without limitation
CIVIL EMERGENCY: of the foregoing, a "civil emergency" includes the appearance
                 of a novel or previously controlled or eradicated infectious
                 agent or biological toxin. (Ord. 2020-09, 3-18-2020)
 
 
Notes
1 1 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
5-5-2: DECLARATION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY:
Pursuant to the authority granted by State law including, without limitation,
Section 11-1-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code, and the Village's home rule
authority, whenever the Village President determines that a civil emergency
exists in the Village, the Village President shall have the extraordinary power
and authority to exercise by executive order all such powers of the corporate
authorities and other officers of the Village as may be reasonably necessary or
appropriate to eliminate or minimize the dangers arising from such civil
emergency and for the protection of the health, safety and general welfare of
the public; provided, however, that prior to exercising any such extraordinary
power and authority, the Village President shall have executed under oath a
written declaration of civil emergency containing the following:
A.   An express declaration that a civil emergency exists; and
B.   A statement of facts known to the Village President, either directly or
upon information and belief, which describes the nature of the civil emergency
and substantiates the finding that a civil emergency exists.
Unless expressly stated otherwise, a declaration issued pursuant to this
Chapter shall be considered a local disaster declaration made pursuant to
Section 11 of the Emergency Management Agency Act. (Ord. 2020-09, 3-18-2020)
5-5-3: ORDERS BY THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
The Village President may, upon the issuance of a declaration of civil
emergency in accordance with Section
5-5-2, issue orders to implement any or all of the following:
A.   The imposition of a curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
Village or to the Village as whole, as deemed advisable by the Village
President, and applicable during such hours of the day or night as deemed
necessary by the Village President in the interest of the public safety and
welfare;
B.   The discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away of gasoline or
other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container other than a
gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
C.   The closure of any business establishment anywhere within the Village for
the period of civil emergency, including, without limitation, businesses
selling intoxicating liquors, gasoline, or firearms;
D.   The closure any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking areas to
vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic;
E.   The calling upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations without or within the Village to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the Village;
F.   The authorization of the Village President, the Village Administrator, or
the coordinator of the Lake Bluff emergency disaster service agency to enter
into contracts for the procurement of supplies and services necessary to
address the civil emergency that would normally require the approval of the
full Village Board;
G.   The incurrence of obligations, the appropriation of funds, and the
provision of emergency assistance reasonably necessary to respond to or
mitigate the civil emergency;
H.   The prohibition of increases in the prices of goods and services sold
within the Village; and
I.   Any other actions reasonably necessary to address the civil emergency and
protect life and property. (Ord. 2020-09, 3-18-2020)
5-5-4: NOTICE:
A declaration of civil emergency shall be: (i) filed with the Village Clerk as
soon as practicable; (ii) promptly disseminated to the news media; and (iii)
promptly posted at Village Hall, the post office, and on the Village's social
media pages and website. (Ord. 2020-09, 3-18-2020)
5-5-5: TERM; EXTENSION; TERMINATION:
A.   Term: A declaration of civil emergency shall expire and automatically
terminate, if not extended pursuant to subsection B of this section, not later
than: (i) the adjournment of the first regular or special meeting of the
Village Board; or (ii) seven (7) days after the declaration is issued,
whichever occurs first.
B.   Extension: The Village Board may by motion extend the initial duration of
a declaration of civil emergency and any orders issued by the Village President
in connection therewith. The extension shall be for the duration necessary and
in the best interest of the Village and the public to address the continuing
civil emergency as determined by the Village Board.
C.   Termination by the Village President: A declaration of civil emergency may
be otherwise terminated at any time in writing and executed by the Village
President. (Ord. 2020-09, 3-18-2020)
5-5-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or any executive order
issued pursuant this Chapter, shall be guilty of an offense against the Village
and shall be punishable by a fine as provided in the general penalty provisions
of section
1-4-1 of this code.
B.   Person that uses property or operates a business in violation of any order
issued pursuant to this Chapter shall constitute a nuisance in fact for the
purposes of this code. (1988 Code § 8-3B-6; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2020-9, 3-18-
2020; Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
CHAPTER 6
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Title
5-6-2: Purpose And Scope
5-6-3: Definitions
5-6-4: Alarm System Permit Requirements
5-6-5: Standards Of Construction And Maintenance
5-6-6: Building Permit Requirements
5-6-7: Entering Premises During Emergency
5-6-8: Fees And Charges
5-6-9: Maintenance Requirements
5-6-10: Penalties; Exemptions
5-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ALARM PERMIT ORDINANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF
LAKE BLUFF. (1988 Code § 7-5-1)
5-6-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth regulations concerning alarm
systems located within, or causing alarms to be transmitted to, any facility of
the village, the establishment of fees therefor and the fines for violations
thereof. This chapter shall be applicable to new and existing alarms and alarm
systems. (1988 Code § 7-5-2)
5-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
          Any mechanical, electrical, electronic or other type of devices (or interconnected group
          of devices serving one location) of any nature or description, which act as a method of
          detecting fire, the discharge of gases, unauthorized access into a building, structure,
          facility, area, or property, real or personal, which, when actuated, emit a sound or
          transmit a signal or message by any means of communication to summon a police or fire
ALARM     department response, and all other warning systems for smoke, fire, gas, or emergency
SYSTEM:   conditions, except for interior smoke, heat or gas alarms or detectors that do not
          transmit a message outside of the premises or emit an exterior signal or alarm, and
          audible alarms affixed to motor vehicles and motorcycles. “Alarm System” includes systems
          commonly known as “automatic holdup alarm system,” “burglar alarm system,” “holdup alarm
          system,” “manual alarm system,” “fire alarm system,” “medical alert alarm system”, “CO
          gas detection alarm system” and “burglary, robbery, trespass alarm.”
DIRECTLY  Any alarm system which is directly connected to, by dedicated wires or other technology,
MONITORED and causes an alarm to be directly monitored by municipal or county communications
ALARM     centers.
SYSTEMS:
          Any alarm which is caused by equipment malfunction, by the setting off, intentionally or
FALSE     unintentionally, of an alarm by a member, occupant, employee, contractor, invitee, or
ALARM:    licensee of the premises, or an alarm call from a dispatching facility or another
          governmental agency or private entity, without any existing emergency or a request for
          emergent response when such need does not exist.
MONITORED Any alarm system which causes an alarm to be displayed at any facility of any agency
ALARM     which provides alarm monitoring services.
SYSTEM:
 
(1988 Code § 7-5-3; amd. Ord. 2024- 19, 9-9-2024)
5-6-4: ALARM SYSTEM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Renewal: An alarm system permit must be obtained prior
to the installation of any alarm system within the village or which is designed
to cause an alarm to be transmitted to any monitoring service, and must be
renewed annually as of May 1 of each calendar year.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for an alarm system permit must be
made on such forms as are prescribed by the village. Application forms will
require the applicant to provide the name, address and telephone number of the
person or persons who will render service or repairs during any hour of the day
or night, and if more than one individual is designated, the hours of contact
for such individual and the names and current addresses and current telephone
numbers of at least three (3) individuals who have keys or access to the
premises in the event of any emergency. In addition, applicants for such
permits must agree to furnish any changes in the information provided in an
application within ten (10) days after such change occurs.
   C.   Separate Applications And Fees; Records Confidential: An application
forms and fees will be required for any alarm system. All applications and
permits will be further subject to all ordinances, resolutions and
administrative directives of the village; provided further, that all such
applications and permits will be considered confidential, and all records
thereon will be maintained only in the office of the police department. (1988
Code § 7-5-4; amd. Ord. 2024-19, 9-9-2024)
5-6-5: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE:
Standards for the construction and maintenance of alarm systems shall be as
promulgated by the village. These standards and regulations shall include
adherence to the electrical and building regulations of the village, and any
other related ordinances. All alarm systems shall be constructed and maintained
so as to distinguish between a police alarm type call, a fire alarm type call,
or a medical emergency. Whenever technically feasible, all alarm systems shall
contain devices which will enable monitoring personnel to ascertain whether an
alarm is actuated by trouble in the system or whether it is a true alarm. (1988
Code § 7-5-5)
5-6-6: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Filing Of Fire Alarm Plans: No fire alarm system shall be installed
within the village unless a building permit is issued by the building
commissioner, except a property owner may replace wireless smoke detectors in
single family residences without obtaining a building permit. Except for
single-family residences, no monitored alarm systems will be allowed for fire
alarms unless a Knox Box of such type as specified by the fire chief is
provided, installed and maintained with current building access keys by the
alarm permit holder. Building permit fees may be waived for alarm systems
installed in single-family residences.
   B.   The initial registration application and fee for a burglar alarm system
will suffice as the required building permit unless the installation includes
any smoke alarms, fire alarms, and/or CO alarms and does not conflict with any
other established building code requirement(s). (1988 Code § 7-5-6; amd. Ord.
2024-19, 9-9-2024)
5-6-7: ENTERING PREMISES DURING EMERGENCY:
The initial filing of an application for an alarm system permit, whether the
registration is renewed or not, will constitute consent for police and fire
department personnel to take whatever action is reasonable and necessary to
gain access to the premises for which an alarm has been received to ascertain
the nature and extent of any emergency. Execution of an alarm system
application acknowledges that the property owner or tenant agree to hold
harmless the village and its police and fire department personnel from any
claims of liability resulting from reasonable entry onto the premises, or
failure to gain access to the premises in responding to an activated alarm. The
permit applicant must certify that he or she has full power and authority to
execute such consent, or will have the signature of the property owner or
tenant affixed to the permit request. (1988 Code § 7-5-7; amd. Ord. 2024-29, 9-
9-2024)
5-6-8: FEES AND CHARGES:
The following permit fees are hereby established for the issuance and renewal
of alarm system permits:
   A.   Within Village: An annual registration fee in the amount as set forth
in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "alarm fees", will be paid for the
issuance and renewal of each permit for an alarm system located in the village.
   B.   Outside Village: An annual registration fee for the issuance and
renewal of each permit for an alarm system located outside of the village will
be set by contract as set forth in section
1-12-3. No such permits will be issued for the initial registration without the
approval of the police chief of the fire chief, based upon the type of alarm.
Approval of the police chief or fire chief is not required for permit renewal,
unless the alarm system or its structure have changed substantially from its
initial registration.
   C.   Initial Connection Fee: In addition to the fees provided in subsections
A and B of this section, the fees in the amounts as set forth in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "alarm fees", will be paid for the
issuance and renewal of each permit for a monitored alarm system. (1988 Code §
7-5-8; amd. 2009 Code)
   D.   Exceptions To Connection Fees And Maintenance Charges:
      1.   When any alarm system for which a connection fee, relay deposit fee
or maintenance charge is imposed, is connected directly into the system of
another municipality, or agency, the connection fee, relay deposit fee, and
maintenance charge of such other municipality will be paid to that
municipality, and will not be due to the village; provided further, that such
alarm will also be registered annually with the village, and the fee paid
therefor.
      2.   No fee will be due for registration of an alarm system for
individual medical emergency purposes only.
   E.   Proration Of Fees: No proration of fees for any permit will be made
except as specifically provided for herein. (1988 Code § 7-5-8; amd. Ord. 2024-
19, 9-9-2024)
5-6-9: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
All holders of alarm system permits shall maintain their alarms in serviceable
condition at all times. All alarms emitting an audible sound outside the
premises shall be equipped with an automatic reset system which shall stop the
alarm after ten (10) minutes of warning sounds if not otherwise manually reset.
All other alarm systems shall have a reset function which prevents a continuous
alarm from being activated for a period in excess of thirty (30) minutes. (1988
Code § 7-5-9)
5-6-10: PENALTIES; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The village may determine and assess penalties for false alarms or
malfunctions in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Definition: The term "twelve (12) month period", as used in this
subsection, means the twelve (12) month interval occurring on a rolling basis
beginning on the date of the first false alarm and ending twelve (12) months
after the date of the first false alarm .
      2.   False Alarms; Permit Holders Liable:
      Any person causing a false alarm of an alarm system will be obligated to
pay a false alarm fee in an amount set forth in section
1-12-3 which is provided for reference as follows:
 
Number of False Alarms occurring during a Burglar False Alarms Fire False Alarm
12 month period
1-4                                       No charge            No charge
5                                         $50.00               $50.00
6-8                                       $100.00              $100.00
9                                         $150.00              $150.00
10 and thereafter                         $250.00              $250.00
 
   For the first four (4) fire false alarms or first four (4) burglar false
alarms in a twelve (12) month period, a written warning notice will be given to
the permit holder. The Village will make a reasonable effort to provide a
similar warning to the property owner of the premises, its tenant, and the
person in control of the premises when there is no other registered alarm
system contact information.
      3.   Property Owner Or Occupant Liability: In addition thereto, the
property owner of the premises, its tenant or person in control will also be
subject to the respective penalties set forth in subsection A2 of this section.
      4.   Malfunction, Excused Alarm: In any instance where an alarm
malfunctions, and the permit owner, property owner of the premises, tenant or
person in control has the same repaired, and the repair facility certifies that
the cause of the malfunction has been corrected, said alarm will be considered
an excused alarm and not a false alarm.
      5.   Continuous Ringing: The permit of any alarm system that malfunctions
and rings for a period of two (2) or more hours will be subject to suspension
or revocation.
      6.   Penalty: Any person who fails to secure or maintain a current alarm
system permit for an alarm system located within the village, or an alarm
system which causes an alarm to be received by the police or fire department of
the village will be subject to a fine in the amount of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for the first violation thereof, and fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
second and subsequent violations thereafter within any twelve (12) month
period. Each day that an alarm is not registered after notice of the second
violation thereof will constitute a separate offense for which a separate and
additional penalty may be recovered. All penalties must be paid within ten (10)
days after written notice. (1988 Code § 7-5-10)
   B.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, for
which a specific fine is not otherwise prescribed, will, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in the amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than the maximum provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 7-5-
12; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Alarm Testing: An alarm system may be tested or serviced at any time
during installation or any time after installation; provided, however the alarm
user or its designee must first notify the monitoring service or the Village's
emergency communications center of the test. Any activation of an alarm system
during a test or demonstration, without prior notice to, and approval of, the
Village will be deemed a false alarm.(1988 Code § 7-5-11; amd. Ord. 2024-19, 9-
9-2024)
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Offenses Against Persons
5-7-1-1: Assault
5-7-1-2: Battery
5-7-1-3: Soliciting A Misdemeanor
5-7-1-4: Attempt
5-7-1-5: Reckless Conduct
5-7-2: Offenses Against Property
5-7-2-1: Theft Under Three Hundred Dollars
5-7-2-2: Retail Theft
5-7-2-3: Library Theft
5-7-2-4: Mutilation And Vandalism Of Library Material
5-7-2-5: Criminal Damage To Property
5-7-2-6: Criminal Damage To Firefighting Apparatus, Hydrants Or Equipment
5-7-2-7: Criminal Trespass To Vehicles
5-7-2-8: Criminal Trespass To Real Property
5-7-2-9: Criminal Trespass To Government Supported Land
5-7-3: Offenses Against Morality
5-7-3-1: Public Indecency
5-7-3-2: Prostitution
5-7-3-3: Solicitation For Prostitution
5-7-3-4: Keeping A Place Of Prostitution
5-7-3-5: Pimping
5-7-3-6: Resisting Or Obstructing A Peace Officer
5-7-3-7: Harassment By Telephone
5-7-3-8: Transmission Of Obscene Messages
5-7-4: Offenses Against Public Peace
5-7-4-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-7-4-2: Possession Of Illegal Drugs; Unlawful Assembly Involving Illegal Drugs
5-7-4-3: Certain Assemblies; Permit Required (Rep. by Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
5-7-4-4: Disturbing Religious Assemblies
5-7-4-5: Residential Picketing
5-7-4-6: Mob Action
5-7-4-7: False Personation
5-7-4-8: Public Demonstrations
5-7-4-9: Swimming From Lillian Dells Drive Prohibited
5-7-5: Weapons Offenses
5-7-5-1: Unlawful Possession Of Firearms Or Ammunition
5-7-5-2: Minors
5-7-5-3: Carrying Or Transporting Firearms
5-7-5-4: Cannons And Artillery; Permit Required
5-7-5-5: Discharging Firearms Prohibited
5-7-5-6: Possessing, Using Or Discharging Weapons
5-7-5-7: Exceptions To Possession And Discharge Of Firearms
5-7-6: Fireworks
5-7-6-1: Definition
5-7-6-2: Restrictions
5-7-6-3: Penalty
5-7-7: Miscellaneous Violations
5-7-7-1: Interference With Emergency Communication
5-7-7-2: Littering
5-7-7-3: Vandalism
5-7-7-4: Unlawful Excavations Of Public Ways
5-7-7-5: Ladders; Scaffolds; Tools
5-7-7-6: Curfew
5-7-7-7: Rendering Aid To Officers Required
5-7-7-8: Impersonating Police Officers
5-7-7-9: Gambling Prohibited
5-7-8: Offenses Against Animals
5-7-8-1: Cruelty To Animals; Animal Fights; Immoral Display Of Animals
5-7-8-2: Killing Or Wounding Birds
5-7-9: Penalty
5-7-1: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS:
5-7-1-1: ASSAULT:
No person shall commit an assault in the village. A person commits assault
when, without lawful authority, he engages in conduct which places another in
reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. (1988 Code § 7-2-1-1)
5-7-1-2: BATTERY:
No person shall commit a battery in the village. A person commits battery if he
intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any means:
A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (1988 Code § 7-2-1-2)
5-7-1-3: SOLICITING A MISDEMEANOR:
A.   Elements Of The Offense: No person shall solicit a misdemeanor within the
village. A person commits solicitation when, with intent that an offense be
committed, other than a felony, he commands, encourages or requests another to
commit that offense. (1988 Code § 7-2-1-3)
B.   Penalty: A person convicted of solicitation may be fined not to exceed the
maximum provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (1988 Code § 7-2-1-3; amd. 2009 Code)
5-7-1-4: ATTEMPT:
A.   Prohibition: No person shall attempt to commit any offense defined in this
chapter.
1.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits an attempt when, with intent to
commit a specific offense, he does any act which constitutes a substantial step
towards the commission of that offense.
2.   Impossibility: It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
B.   Sentence: A person convicted of an attempt may be fined not to exceed the
maximum provided for the offense attempted. (1988 Code § 7-2-1-4)
5-7-1-5: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
No person shall engage in any reckless conduct in the village. A person who
causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an individual by any
means commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the acts which cause
the harm or endangers safety, whether they otherwise are lawful or unlawful.
(1988 Code § 7-2-1-5)
5-7-2: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
5-7-2-1: THEFT UNDER THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS:
It is unlawful to commit the offense of theft under three hundred dollars
($300.00) in the village. A person commits theft when, with respect to property
having a value less than three hundred dollars ($300.00), he knowingly:
A.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
B.   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner; or
C.   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner; or
D.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to believe
that the property was stolen, and:
1.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property; or
2.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as to
deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
3.   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use, concealment or
abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit.
(1988 Code § 7-2-2-1)
5-7-2-2: RETAIL THEFT:
A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits the offense of retail theft when
he or she knowingly:
1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers, or causes to be carried away
or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in
a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
2.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia of
value, or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a
retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which such
merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
4.   Underrings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail
value of the merchandise; or
5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
6.   Represents to a merchant that he or another is the lawful owner of
property knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or attempts to
convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property in exchange
for money, merchandise credit, or other property of the merchant; or
7.   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft detection
device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the merchant
permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise displayed,
held, stored, or offered for sale in a retail mercantile establishment without
paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or (1988 Code § 7-2-2-2)
8.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner and
thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return it
to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within ten (10) days after written demand from the owner for its return.
A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee and shown on
the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand; and (2009 Code)
9.   The value of the merchandise does not exceed one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). (1988 Code § 7-2-2-2)
B.   Presumptions: If any person conceals upon his or her person or among his
or her belongings, unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered
for sale in a retail mercantile establishment, and removes that merchandise
beyond the last known station for receiving payments for that merchandise in
that retail mercantile establishment, such person shall be presumed to have
possessed, carried away or transferred such merchandise with the intention of
retaining it or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise.
C.   Detention:
1.   Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has
committed retail theft may detain such person, on or off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable
length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
a.   To request identification.
b.   To verify such identification.
c.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his possession
unpurchased merchandise and to make reasonable investigation of the ownership
of such merchandise.
d.   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and surrender
that person to the custody of a peace officer.
e.   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents, guardian
or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of this
detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
2.   A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment only if such detention is pursuant to an
immediate pursuit of such person.
3.   A merchant shall be deemed to have reasonable grounds to make a detention
for the purposes of this section if the merchant detains a person because such
person has in his possession either a theft detection shielding device or a
theft detection device remover. (2009 Code)
5-7-2-3: LIBRARY THEFT:
No person shall commit the offense of library theft within the village. A
person commits the offense of library theft when such person:
A.   Knowingly and intentionally removes any library material having an
aggregate value of less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) from the premises
of a library facility without authority to do so; or
B.   Knowingly and intentionally conceals any library material having an
aggregate value of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) upon his or
her person or among his or her belongings, while still in the premises of a
library facility, and in such manner that the library material is not visible
through ordinary observation although there may be some notice of its presence,
and removes such library material beyond the last point in the premises of that
library facility at which library material may be borrowed in accordance with
procedures established by that library facility for the borrowing of library
material; or
C.   With the intent to deceive, borrows or attempts to borrow any library
material having an aggregate value of not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) from a library facility by: 1) use of a library card issued to
another without the other's consent; or 2) use of a library card knowing that
it is revoked, canceled or expired; or 3) use of a library card knowing that it
is falsely made, counterfeit or materially altered; or
D.   Borrows from a library facility library material which has an aggregate
value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more pursuant to an agreement with or
procedure established by the library facility for the return of such library
material, and wilfully, without good cause, fails to return the library
material so borrowed in accordance with such agreement or procedure, and
further, wilfully, without good cause, fails to return such library material
within thirty (30) days after receiving written notice by registered mail from
the library facility demanding the return of such library material. (1988 Code
§ 7-2-2-3)
5-7-2-4: MUTILATION AND VANDALISM OF LIBRARY MATERIAL:
No person shall mutilate and vandalize any library material within the village.
A person commits the offense of mutilation and vandalism of library material
when such person knowingly tears, marks on, maliciously renders imperfect or
otherwise damages or destroys library material having an aggregate value of
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or less. (1988 Code § 7-2-2-4)
5-7-2-5: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to criminally damage property of another
within the village. A person commits an illegal act when such person:
A.   Knowingly damages any property of another without his consent, if the
damage to property does not exceed three hundred dollars ($300,00); or
B.   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damages property of another, if
the damage to property does not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00); or
C.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his consent, if the
damage to property does not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00); or
D.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his consent, if the
damage to property does not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00); or
E.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without his
consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby intends
to interfere with the use by another of the land or building; or
F.   Damages any property, if the damage to property does not exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00), with intent to defraud an insurer; or
G.   Knowingly damages the property of another without his consent by defacing
such property by the use of paint or any other similar substance, if the damage
to property does not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00). (1988 Code § 7-2-
2-5; amd. 2009 Code)
5-7-2-6: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to wilfully and maliciously cut, injure,
damage, tamper with or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or
any fire engine, or other public or private firefighting equipment, or any
apparatus appertaining to such equipment, or intentionally open any fire
hydrant without proper authorization. (1988 Code § 7-2-2-6)
5-7-2-7: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly and without authority to enter any
part of or operate any vehicle, aircraft, watercraft or snowmobile of another.
(1988 Code § 7-2-2-7)
5-7-2-8: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO REAL PROPERTY:
A.   It shall be unlawful to: 1) knowingly and without lawful authority enter
or remain on the land or a building of another; 2) enter upon the land or a
building of another, after receiving prior to such entry, notice from the owner
or occupant that such entry is forbidden; 3) remain upon the land or in a
building of another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to
depart; or 4) present false documents, or falsely represent his or her identity
or purpose for entry orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in
order to obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the
building or on the land.
B.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the meaning
of subsection A of this section if he has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry
has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or
the forbidden part thereof. (Ord. 2018-4, 2-26-2018)
5-7-2-9: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO GOVERNMENT SUPPORTED LAND:
A.   Any person who shall enter upon land supported in whole or in part with
government funds administered or granted through government agencies or any
building on such land, after receiving, prior to such entry, notice from the
appropriate governmental authority or its representative to depart, and who
thereby interferes with another person's lawful use or enjoyment of such
building or land, commits the offense of criminal trespass to government
supported land.
B.   A person has received notice from the governmental authority within the
meaning of subsection A of this section, if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry to him or a group of which he is a part, has been conspicuously posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
(1988 Code § 7-2-2-9)
5-7-3: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY:
5-7-3-1: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
A.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who performs any
of the following acts in a public place commits the offense of public
indecency:
1.   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct.
a.   "Sexual penetration" means any contact, however slight, between the sex
organ or anus of one person by an object and the sex organ, mouth or anus of
another person, or any intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of
one person or of any animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another
person, including, but not limited to, cunnilingus, fellatio or anal
penetration. Evidence of emission of semen is not required to prove sexual
penetration.
b.   "Sexual conduct" means any intentional or knowing touching or fondling of
the victim by the accused, either directly or through clothing, of the sex
organs, anus or breast of the victim by the accused, or any part of the body of
a child under thirteen (13) years of age, for the purpose of sexual
gratification or arousal of the victim or the accused.
2.   A lewd exposure of the body done with the intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person.
B.   Breast feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
C.   "Public place", for purposes of this section, means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-
1; amd. 2009 Code)
5-7-3-2: PROSTITUTION:
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any act of prostitution
within the village. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-2; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any act of "sexual
penetration", as defined in subsection C of this section, for any money,
property, token, object, or article or anything of value, or any touching or
fondling of the sex organs of one person by another person for any money,
property, token, object, or article or anything of value for the purpose of
sexual arousal or gratification, commits an act of prostitution.
C.   "Sexual penetration" means any contact, however slight, between the sex
organ or anus of one person by an object, the sex organ, mouth or anus of
another person, or any intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of
one person or of any animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another
person, including, but not limited to, cunnilingus, fellatio or anal
penetration. Evidence of emission of semen is not required to prove sexual
penetration. (2009 Code)
5-7-3-3: SOLICITATION FOR PROSTITUTION:
Any person who performs any of the following acts commits the offense of
soliciting for a prostitute:
A.   Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution; or
B.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose of
prostitution; or
C.   Directs another to a place knowing such direction is for the purpose of
prostitution. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-3)
5-7-3-4: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION:
Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place which could
offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution who performs any of
the following acts commits the offense of keeping a place of prostitution:
A.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution; or
B.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from which he
could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for purposes of
prostitution; or
C.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts or
circumstances from which he could reasonably know that the place is being used
for purposes of prostitution. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-4)
5-7-3-5: PIMPING:
Any person who receives money, property, token, object, or article, or anything
of value from a prostitute, not for a lawful consideration, knowing it was
earned in whole or in part from the practice of prostitution, commits the
offense of pimping. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-5; amd. 2009 Code)
5-7-3-6: RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct a peace officer. A
person commits the offense of resisting or obstructing a peace officer when
such person knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the
person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his official
capacity. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-11)
5-7-3-7: HARASSMENT BY TELEPHONE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harass another by telephone. It shall be
unlawful for any person to commit the offense of harassment by telephone. For
purposes of this section, harassment by telephone is use of telephone
communications for any of the following purposes:
A.   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent with an intent to offend; or
B.   Making a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with intent
to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called number; or
C.   Making or causing the telephone of another repeatedly to ring, with intent
to harass any person at the called number; or
D.   Making repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues, solely
to harass any person at the called number; or
E.   Knowingly permitting any telephone under one's control to be used for any
of the purposes mentioned herein. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-12)
5-7-3-8: TRANSMISSION OF OBSCENE MESSAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to transmit any obscene messages. A person
who sends messages or uses language or terms which are obscene, lewd or immoral
with the intent to offend by means of or while using a telephone or telegraph
facility, equipment or wires of any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
transmission of news or messages to or from the village commits the offense of
transmission of obscene messages. (1988 Code § 7-2-3-13)
5-7-4: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE:
5-7-4-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful to engage in disorderly conduct within the village. A
person commits disorderly conduct when such person knowingly:
A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace.
B.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town, village
or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire
exists.
C.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a bomb
or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its explosion
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is concealed
in such place.
D.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed.
E.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it.
F.   While acting as a "collection agency" as defined in the collection agency
act 1  or as an employee of such collection agency, and while attempting to
collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is
designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor.
G.   Transmits a false report to the department of children and family services
under section 4 of the abused and neglected child reporting act 2 . (1988 Code
§ 7-2-4-1)
H.   Knowingly transmits a false report to the department of public health
under the nursing home care act 3 . (1988 Code § 7-2-4-1; amd. 2009 Code)
I.   Transmits in any manner to the police department or fire department of any
municipality or fire protection district or any privately owned and operated
ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician/ambulance or emergency medical technician/paramedic knowing at the
time there is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is
required. (1988 Code § 7-2-4-1)
J.   Transmits a false report under article II of an act in relation to victims
of violence and abuse, approved September 16, 1984, as amended. (1988 Code § 7-
2-4-1; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
2 2. 325 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
3 3. 210 ILCS 45/1-101 et seq.
5-7-4-2: POSSESSION OF ILLEGAL DRUGS; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY INVOLVING ILLEGAL
DRUGS:
A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CANNABIS: Any substance as defined in section 3 of the cannabis control act,
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., as the same may, from time to
time hereafter, be amended.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined and included in the schedules
of article II of the controlled substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
570/201 et seq., as the same may, from time to time hereafter, be amended.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products, and materials as defined in the
drug paraphernalia control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq.,
as the same may, from time to time hereafter, be amended.
   ILLEGAL DRUGS: Any controlled substance, cannabis, or unprescribed drug.
   KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
   UNPRESCRIBED DRUG: Any drug as defined in paragraph (b) of section 3 of the
pharmacy practice act of 1987, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 85/1 et seq., as
the same may, from time to time hereafter, be amended, that is obtained without
a prescription or otherwise in violation of the law.
   VEHICLE OR PREMISES: Any privately owned and operated motor vehicle,
conveyance or vessel; any house or apartment; any hotel, motel, or bed and
breakfast room or any similar premises to which the general public is not
normally admitted.
B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess
illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia in the village, except as, and only to the
extent, otherwise explicitly authorized by state or federal law.
C.   Responsibility Of Owner: It shall be unlawful for any owner of, or other
person having control over, any vehicle or premises to knowingly initiate,
suffer, permit, or allow one or more occupants, invitees, visitors, guests,
trespassers, or other persons to assemble or be assembled in such vehicle or
premises in possession of any illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia.
D.   Responsibility Regarding Renting Premises: It shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly rent, or pay for, any hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast
room or facility from the proprietor or agent thereof for the purpose of using
such room or facility for the consumption or intake of illegal drugs.
E.   Presumptions Of Knowledge And Permission: For purposes of this section, a
person shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have
knowingly permitted a violation of this section if: 1) such person is present
within any vehicle or premises of which such person is the owner, lessee,
permittee, bailee, legal possessor, or occupier thereof at the time that a
violation of the provisions of this section is occurring; and 2) such person
has not informed the Lake Bluff police department thereof. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-
1995)
5-7-4-3: CERTAIN ASSEMBLIES; PERMIT REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
5-7-4-4: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful to disturb any congregation or assembly met for religious
worship by making any noise or by rude or indecent behavior or profane
discourse within any place of worship or so near to the same as to disturb the
order or solemnity of the meeting. (1988 Code § 7-2-4-5)
5-7-4-5: RESIDENTIAL PICKETING:
It is unlawful to picket before or about the residence or dwelling of any
person, except when the residence or dwelling is used as a place of business.
However, this section does not apply to a person peacefully picketing his own
residence or dwelling and does not prohibit the peaceful picketing of the place
of holding a meeting or assembly on premises commonly used to discuss subjects
of general public interest. (1988 Code § 7-2-4-6)
5-7-4-6: MOB ACTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of mob action in the
village. Mob action consists of any of the following:
A.   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two (2) or
more persons acting together and without authority of law; or
B.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
C.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence. (1988
Code § 7-2-4-7)
5-7-4-7: FALSE PERSONATION 1 :
It shall be unlawful to commit the offense of false personation in the village.
A person commits the offense of false personation when such person:
A.   Falsely represents himself to be an attorney authorized to practice law or
a public officer or a public employee.
B.   Falsely represents himself to be a member of any police, fraternal or
veterans' organization, including the Illinois Police Association, or a
representative of any charitable organization or when any person exhibits or
uses in any manner, any decal, badge or insignia of any police organization
when not authorized to do so by such police organization. (1988 Code § 7-2-4-8)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-7-7-8 of this chapter.
5-7-4-8: PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person, group or organization to conduct or participate
in any march, assembly, meeting on any public place in the village, or
gathering on roadways in more than one specific area of or location in the
village on any one given day unless a demonstration permit is issued by the
village, or if not, with the permission of the police chief. (1988 Code § 7-2-
4-9)
5-7-4-9: SWIMMING FROM LILLIAN DELLS DRIVE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or a person to allow their pets to enter
the water of Lake Michigan from Lillian Dells Drive. (Ord. 2022-3, 1-24-2022)
5-7-5: WEAPONS OFFENSES:
5-7-5-1: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS OR AMMUNITION:
It shall be an offense for any person to unlawfully possess any firearms or
firearms ammunition in the village. A person commits the offense of unlawful
possession of firearms or firearm ammunition when:
A.   He is under eighteen (18) years of age and has in his possession any
firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person; or
B.   He is under twenty one (21) years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and has any
firearm or firearm ammunition in his possession; or
C.   He is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his
possession; or
D.   He has been a patient in a mental hospital within the past five (5) years
and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his possession; or
E.   He is mentally retarded and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his
possession; or (1988 Code § 7-2-5-1)
F.   He has in his possession any "explosive bullet". For purposes of this
subsection, "explosive bullet" means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. "Cartridge" means a tubular
metal case having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer
at the rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in such tube between the
projectile and the cap. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-1; amd. 2009 Code)
5-7-5-2: MINORS:
A.   Furnishing Firearms To: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, loan
or furnish to any minor any gun, pistol or other firearm within the limits of
the village.
B.   Air Guns, BB Guns; Persons Under Thirteen Years: It shall be unlawful for
any parent or guardian or other person to purchase for, or furnish to, give to
or permit the possession by, any child under the age of thirteen (13) years
within the village any air gun, air rifle, air pistol, spring gun, spring
pistol, pellet gun, BB gun, or any implement that is not a firearm which impels
a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard material with a
force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-2)
5-7-5-3: CARRYING OR TRANSPORTING FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful to carry or transport any gun, pistol, fowling piece or
other firearm, or any air gun, air pistol or slingshot within the corporate
limits of the village which contains any explosive substance, nor shall any
such weapon be carried or transported unless in a case, dismantled or broken
down. Any weapon so broken must have a cord, strap or cloth tied around the
weapon in such manner as to render it incapable of being discharged without
first removing such cord, strap or cloth. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-3)
5-7-5-4: CANNONS AND ARTILLERY; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to discharge or fire any cannon or piece of artillery
within the corporate limits of the village without written permission from the
village administrator. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-4)
5-7-5-5: DISCHARGING FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
No person shall at any time discharge or set off anywhere within the village,
or carry the same for such purpose, any firearm, gun, pistol, rifle, air rifle,
cannon, or any other gun that discharges projectiles either by air, spring,
explosive substance or any other force. The prohibitions contained herein shall
also apply to the discharge of toy firearms and toy cannons of any nature or
description, but shall not apply to the carrying of unloaded toy firearms and
toy cannons, or the carrying or discharge of toy water pistols and cap guns.
(1988 Code § 7-2-5-5)
5-7-5-6: POSSESSING, USING OR DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
A.   "Weapons", as used in this section, includes firearms, but also includes
bludgeons, blackjacks, slingshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles, throwing
stars, or any knife commonly referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a
blade that opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or
other device in the handle of the knife, or a ballistic knife which is a device
that propels a knifelike blade as a projectile by means or a coil spring,
elastic material or compressed gas, a dagger, dirk, billy, straight razor,
stiletto, broken bottle or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser, nunchaku,
tear gas gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid, gas or
substance, other than an object containing a nonlethal noxious gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person eighteen (18) years or
older. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-6; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   No person shall possess any weapon, gun, pistol, rifle, shotgun, or
firearm of any nature or description, or slingshot, crossbow, bow and arrow or
explosive bullets or projectiles the possession of which is prohibited by the
state. No person shall discharge or carry any firearm or weapon described
herein, or other devices prohibited by the laws of the state within the
corporate limits of the village. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-6)
5-7-5-7: EXCEPTIONS TO POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
The restrictions on the possession and discharge of firearms shall not apply to
police officers of the village in the performance of their duties, nor to
officers of any court whose duty it is to serve warrants or make arrests, nor
to those individuals exempted under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-2 who
comply with the provisions of said statute and use such weapons in accordance
therewith. Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the possession and
discharge of a weapon when such use is in self-defense of a person, home or of
property. (1988 Code § 7-2-5-7)
5-7-6: FIREWORKS:
5-7-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any combustible or explosive
compositions or any substances or articles prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation. (Ord. 92-29, 11-9-1992)
5-7-6-2: RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to at any time sell, offer for sale, give away, possess,
store, discharge or otherwise use fireworks of any kind within the village;
provided, however, that upon a permit being issued therefor by the board of
trustees, fireworks may be stored and used for public exhibitions. (Ord. 92-29,
11-9-1992)
5-7-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this section
5-7-6 shall be punished by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during which such violation occurs and continues. (Ord. 92-
29, 11-9-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
5-7-7: MISCELLANEOUS VIOLATIONS:
5-7-7-1: INTERFERENCE WITH EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION:
It shall be unlawful to interfere with any emergency communication in the
village.
A.   A person commits the offense of interference with emergency communication
when he knowingly, intentionally and without lawful justification interrupts,
disrupts, impedes, or otherwise interferes with the transmission of a
communication over any mode of communication, the purpose of which
communication is to inform or inquire about an emergency.
B.   For the purpose of this section, "emergency" means a condition or
circumstance in which an individual is, or is reasonably believed by the person
transmitting the communication to be, in imminent danger of serious bodily
injury or in which property is, or is reasonably believed by the person
transmitting the communication to be, in imminent danger of damage or
destruction. (1988 Code § 7-2-6-1)
5-7-7-2: LITTERING:
A.   Definition: "Litter", as used herein, means any discarded, used or
unconsumed substance or waste. "Litter" may include, but is not limited to, any
garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or
garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers
or other packaging construction material, abandoned vehicles, motor vehicle
parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive
matter of any kind or any object likely to injure any person or create a
traffic hazard, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which
has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
B.   Deposits Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit the dumping,
depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter upon any public
or private property in the village, or upon or into any river, lake, pond or
other stream or body of water in the village, unless:
1.   The property has been designated by the state or the village for the
disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules of the Illinois pollution control board of
the state, and the ordinances of the village; or
2.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by the
owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter; or
3.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property or
has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, or
unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, and
does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or a fire
hazard; or
4.   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials during
special cleanup days; or
5.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of
such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
C.   Deposits From Vehicles And Property: No person shall dump, deposit, drop,
throw, discard or otherwise dispose of litter in the village from any motor
vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or private property or upon or
into any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water except as permitted under
subsection B of this section; nor shall any person transport by any means
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm or
other site and deposit such material in, around or on top of trash barrels or
other receptacles placed along public highways at any point.
D.   Accumulations Of Litter: No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon
real property, of which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control,
in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that
the litter may be blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the
real property of another person.
E.   Abandoned Vehicles: No person shall abandon a motor vehicle in the village
on any highway or road, on any public property or on any private property of
which he is not the owner or tenant in lawful possession in the village. The
person to whom last was issued the certificate of title to the vehicle by the
secretary of state of Illinois is presumed to be the person to have abandoned
that vehicle, but such presumption may be rebutted.
F.   Vehicle Operator Presumed Guilty: Whenever litter is thrown, deposited,
dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the
presumption is created that the operator of the motor vehicle committed the
act, but that presumption may be rebutted.
G.   Places Of Public Assembly; Receptacles Required:
1.   In order to assist the public in complying with this section, the owner or
person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a place
for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public way
shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of litter,
of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the number
of people customarily coming on or using the property.
2.   For purposes of this subsection, property held out to the public for the
transaction of business includes, but is not limited to, commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive- in restaurants, automobile service stations,
business parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching
areas, industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers,
beaches and bathing areas, shopping malls, and property held out to the public
for assemblage, recreation or as a public way and includes, but is not limited
to, any property that is publicly owned or operated for any of the purposes
stated in this subsection G2 for property held out to the public for the
transaction of business, but excludes state highway rights of way. (1988 Code §
7-2-6-2)
5-7-7-3: VANDALISM:
A.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully,
maliciously, or negligently break, deface, injure, or destroy any property
within the village, whether such property is owned by the state, county,
village, or any other governmental body, or owned by any private person. Acts
prohibited under this section include, but are not limited to, the following:
1.   Injury To Public Or Private Grounds: To cut, injure, mark, or deface any
building not his own or any tree, grass, shrub, or walk in any public or
private grounds or any sewer, water pipe, or hydrant laid or placed by the
village; provided, further, that an abutting property owner or tenant is
authorized to mow grass, and trim trees and shrubs on parkway property adjacent
to his property.
2.   Paint, Mark Or Mutilate: To paint or mark on, cut into or deface, or
mutilate in any manner any public sidewalk, street, or any other public
property without permit issued therefor by the village.
3.   Lights And Utilities: To break, deface, disturb, interfere with, carry
away, or in any way injure or destroy any electric light globe or any part or
appurtenance to any lamp or light of any kind used in, upon, or about any
street, public or private place in the village, or any telephone, electric,
cable television, communications or telegraph wire, or any appurtenances
thereto at any place within the limits of the village.
4.   Stones And Missiles: To throw or cast any stone or other missile upon or
at any building, railroad car, tree, or other public or private property, or
upon or at any person, in any public or private place, or to aid or abet in the
same. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
5.   Damage To Buildings And Property: To engage in the knowing infliction,
without consent, of damage to: a) any church, synagogue, or other building,
structure, or place used for religious worship or other religious purpose; b)
any cemetery, mortuary, or other facility used for the purpose of burial or
memorializing the dead; c) any school, educational facility, or community
center; d) any grounds adjacent to, and owned or rented by, any such
institution, facility, building, structure, or place; or e) any personal
property contained in any such institution, facility, building, structure, or
place, by reason of the actual or perceived race, color, creed, religion,
national origin, ancestry, gender, sexual orientation, or physical or mental
disability of another individual or group of individuals. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-
1995; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Parental Responsibility:
1.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
         KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief
or ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
         LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a
minor by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705
Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/1-1 et seq.
         MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
         UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of at
least one of his or her parents or a legal guardian.
         WILFUL: Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion
of the will.
2.   Parental Responsibility For Failure To Supervise: It shall be unlawful for
any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor to knowingly suffer,
permit, or allow such minor to wilfully or maliciously damage or destroy any
property or to injure any person or animal.
3.   Parental Responsibility For Damages: The parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor shall be liable to the full extent permitted by law, for
actual damages for: a) such minor's acts of vandalism occurring within the
village; and b) the wilful or malicious acts of such minor that occur within
the village and that cause injury to a person, animal, or property. (Ord. 95-
42, 12-11-1995)
5-7-7-4: UNLAWFUL EXCAVATIONS OF PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to dig, cut or remove any sod, gravel, sand or earth from
any of the public streets or property of the village without authority of the
village administrator, or from any private lot or tract of land without the
consent of the owner thereof. (1988 Code § 7-2-6-5)
5-7-7-5: LADDERS; SCAFFOLDS; TOOLS:
It shall be unlawful to place any scaffolds or ladders in such a position that
they overhang or can fall upon any public street, alley or other public way in
the village unless such ladder or scaffold shall be firmly and properly
constructed and safeguarded; and it shall be unlawful to place or leave any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such a manner that such
tools or articles can fall upon such street, alley or other public way from a
greater height than four feet (4'). (1988 Code § 7-2-6-8)
5-7-7-6: CURFEW 1 :
A.   Beaches Or Lake Front Property: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for any person, other than
municipal officials and employees conducting official business, to be or remain
upon any and all public beaches or public lake front property in the village
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the
following day, without a written permit issued by or pursuant to the proper
authority.
B.   Village Green Vacant Property: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
section to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for any person, other than
municipal officials and employees conducting official business, to be or remain
upon any other public property in the village except for the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and public rights of way, nor any vacant property or any part
thereof between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. of the following day, without a written permit issued by or pursuant to
the proper authority. (1988 Code § 7-2-6-10)
C.   School Curfew For Minors:
1.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
subsection, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection C1,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
         KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief
or ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
         LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a
minor by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705
Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/1-1 et seq.
         MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
         UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of at
least one of his or her parents or a legal guardian.
         WILFUL: Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion
of the will.
2.   Curfew Imposed; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any minor who is
enrolled in any public, private, or parochial school to be present at or upon,
or to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in or upon, any street, alley, sidewalk,
parkway, park, playground, or other public place, or in or on any public
building, place of amusement or entertainment, or any vacant lot in the
village, other than school, during any hours when school is in session during
the regular school term, unless such minor is:
a.   Traveling to or from school by the most direct route; or
b.   Engaged in school related activities with written approval of school
authorities or as otherwise authorized by written school policy; or
c.   Engaged in personal business, including, without limitation, employment,
medical care, and religious activities, with prior written consent from a
parent, legal guardian, or other adult having lawful custody or supervision of
such person to school authorities; or
d.   Accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other adult
having lawful custody or supervision of such person.
3.   Investigatory Detention: Any police officer may stop and detain a person
whom the police officer reasonably suspects to be violating this subsection for
purpose of verifying the detained person's identity, age, school enrollment and
authority to be absent from school. The police officer shall immediately inform
the detained person of the reason for the detention and that he or she will be
released upon verification of authorization to be absent from school. If the
detained person refuses to provide the police officer with the necessary
information, or if authorization to be absent from school cannot be verified
within fifteen (15) minutes of the detention, the detained person shall, if
practicable, be taken to school authorities or a parent or legal guardian or
other adult having lawful custody or supervision of such person. (Ord. 95-42,
12-11-1995)
4.   First And Subsequent Violations: Any person who violates this subsection
shall be warned by any police officer forthwith to comply with such provisions,
and such officer shall also, without delay, report such violation to his or her
superior officer, who shall cause a written notice to be served upon the
parent, legal guardian or other adult having lawful custody or supervision of
such person, setting forth the manner in which this subsection has been
violated. In case any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, after such
warning, shall again violate any of the provisions of this subsection, he or
she shall be taken into custody as a juvenile delinquent and dealt with as
provided under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois Compiled Statutes
405/1-1 et seq. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
5.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal
guardian of an unemancipated minor to knowingly suffer, permit, or allow such
minor to violate any provision of this subsection. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-8-1 of this title.
5-7-7-7: RENDERING AID TO OFFICERS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the village, when called upon by the
chief of police or any member of the police department or by any officer of the
Village possessing police powers, to refuse to promptly aid and assist him in
the execution of his duties. (1988 Code § 7-2-6-11)
5-7-7-8: IMPERSONATING POLICE OFFICERS 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a member of the Police
Department or one legally vested with police powers, to assume to act as a
police officer in any capacity within or without the Village. A person commits
the offense of impersonating when such person uses a star, badge or other
similar device identifying such person to be a member of the Lake Bluff Police
Department or one legally authorized to act on behalf of the Police Department,
and such person is not a member of the Police Department. (1988 Code § 7-2-6-
12)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-7-4-7 of this chapter.
5-7-7-9: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to have broad application in
order to encompass all existing activities which are considered gambling and
any such activities which may be conceived in the future.
B.   Definitions: The following terms have the definitions herein ascribed to
them:
      GAMBLING DEVICE:
      Means:
         (1)   Any clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machine or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action or which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost:
         (2)   Any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other device
designed primarily for use in a gambling place: and
         (3)   Any video gaming terminal as defined in the Illinois Video
Gaming Act. 230 ILCS 40/5. The term "Gambling Device" does not include the
following, as defined by Illinois law at 720 ILCS 5/28-2fa1:
            a.   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices played for
amusement only. which reward players with the right to replay the device:
            b.   Vending machines:
            c.    Crane games: and
            d.   Redemption machines that reward a player proportionally based
on a score with a ticket that may be redeemed at the establishment for prizes.
      LOTTERY: Means any system, scheme, or procedure whereby one or more
prizes are distributed by chance among persons who have paid or promised
consideration for a chance to win such prizes, whether such system, scheme, or
procedures is called a lottery, raffle, gift, sale, or some other name. The
term "Lottery" does not include lotteries authorized by Illinois law or
specifically authorized by this Code.
      POLICY GAME: Means any system, scheme, or procedure whereby a person
promises or guarantees by any instrument, bill, certificate-writing, token, or
other device that any particular number, character, ticket, or certificate will
in the event of any contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the
purchaser or holder to receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
      SWEEPSTAKES: Means a contest, drawing, or similar activity, whether
online or not and with or without an entry requirement, where a prize, cash,
trip, or other reward may be awarded to a winner or winners.
C.   Gambling Prohibited: Except as specifically authorized by the village
pursuant to title 3, chapter 14 of this Code or by the Illinois Charitable
Games Act. 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.. all of the following acts, actions, and
undertakings are unlawful:
1.   To gamble.
2.   To conduct or participate in any lottery or policy game, or to make a bet,
or to buy or sell any chance or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement, or
device.
3.   To use any gambling device.
4.   To possess or expose for public use any gambling device with the intent to
use that gambling device for an unlawful purpose.
5.   To conduct or participate in any lottery or policy game.
6.   To keep and provide for public use a sweepstakes terminal or console or
other form of on-line sweepstakes access.
7.   To maintain or to patronize any establishment maintained for a gambling
house or resort.
8.   To advertise any gambling house or resort in any street, alley, or other
public area or right of way within the Village. (Ord. 2009-24, 10-26-2009; amd.
Ord. 2017-11, 6-12-2017; Ord. 2019-22, 9-9-2019)
5-7-8: OFFENSES AGAINST ANIMALS:
5-7-8-1: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 1 ; ANIMAL FIGHTS; IMMORAL DISPLAY OF ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to commit any cruel act towards animals, instigate, cause
or procure any fights between animals, or in any manner instigate, cause,
procure or assist in any indecent or immoral show or exhibition of any animal.
(1988 Code § 7-2-7-1)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 5-9A-2 of this title.
5-7-8-2: KILLING OR WOUNDING BIRDS:
It shall be unlawful to kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound, by use of
any firearms, slingshot, bow and arrow or otherwise, any bird within the limits
of the Village, or to shoot any arrow or throw a stone or club or other missile
at any bird within any private or public grounds, or take the eggs or young of
any such bird, or enter upon any private enclosure or public ground for the
purpose of doing any act prohibited by this section. (1988 Code § 7-2-7-2)
5-7-9: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this chapter
or committing an "offense", as defined herein, shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues and for each
separate offense committed. (1988 Code § 7-2-8-1; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MINORS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Curfew
5-8-2: Alcohol
5-8-3: Parental Responsibility
5-8-4: Tobacco Products And E-Cigarettes
5-8-1: CURFEW 1 :
A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: It is unlawful for a person less than eighteen
(18) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building,
place, street, or highway at the following times unless one of the exceptions
listed in subsection B of this section applies:
   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., Saturday;
   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., Sunday; and
   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
B.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to any person less than eighteen
(18) years of age who is:
1.   Accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible companion at least eighteen (18) years of age;
2.   Engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Illinois authorize a
person less than eighteen (18) years of age to perform;
3.   Attending or traveling to or from an official school, religious, or civic
activity;
4.   Attending or traveling to or from any assembly activity for which a permit
has been lawfully issued;
5.   Involved in an emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage; or
6.   Traveling between states or internationally from a location outside of
Illinois to another location outside of Illinois.
C.   Enforcement Restrictions: A police officer shall not take any enforcement
action under this section unless the police officer reasonably believes that a
violation of this section has occurred and that no exception listed in
subsection B of this section is applicable.
D.   Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Other Persons: It is unlawful for a
parent, legal guardian, or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or
her custody or control to violate this section. (Ord. 2004-13, 4-26-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-7-7-6 of this title.
5-8-2: ALCOHOL 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, deliver or make available
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one (21) except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service. This prohibition shall not
apply to the consumption of alcoholic liquor by a minor under the direct
supervision and approval of the parents or legal guardians of such minor in the
privacy of the home of said parents or legal guardians. (1988 Code § 7-3-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-2-25 of this code.
5-8-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor
by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705
Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/1-1 et seq.
      MINOR: A person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
      PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
      UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of at least
one of his or her parents or legal guardian.
      WILFUL: Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion of
the will.
B.   Inciting Violations By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person,
including a parent or legal guardian, to knowingly or wilfully cause, aid or
encourage any minor to violate or attempt to violate any state or federal law
or municipal ordinance or to knowingly or wilfully act in such a manner as to
directly tend to cause a minor to violate or attempt to act in such a manner as
to directly tend to cause a minor to violate or attempt to violate any state or
federal law or municipal ordinance.
C.   Parental Responsibility For Violations By Minors: It shall be unlawful for
any parent or legal guardian or an unemancipated minor to knowingly suffer,
permit or allow such minor to violate any provision of this code.
D.   Parental Responsibility For Unpaid Penalties: The parent or legal guardian
of an unemancipated minor shall be liable for any fine, condition or
restriction or reparation imposed by a court upon such minor for a violation of
any provision of this code, but only if: 1) such minor has not paid the fine or
made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and 2)
said parent or legal guardian has been served with summons or notice to appear
in the original cause as provided by law.
E.   Improper Supervision Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any parent or
legal guardian of an unemancipated minor to fail to make all reasonable efforts
to prevent such minor from violating any of the provisions of this code,
including specifically, but without limitation, provisions concerning
vandalism, curfew for minors, alcoholic liquor and illegal drugs.
F.   Presumptions Of Knowledge And Permission:
1.   Knowingly Permitting: The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have
knowingly permitted such minor to have committed a violation of this code if:
a.   Such minor shall have either: 1) been adjudicated to be in violation of;
2) incurred nonjudicial sanctions from an official public agency resulting from
an admission of guilt of violation of; or 3) received a written warning or
citation by the Lake Bluff police department of a potential or probable
violation of any provision of this code concerning vandalism, curfew for
minors, alcoholic liquor or illegal drugs; and
b.   The parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice from the
village police department of such adjudication, sanction, or warning; and
c.   Within three (3) years following receipt of the notice set forth in
subsection F1b of this section, such minor either: 1) is adjudicated to have
violated the same provision of this code; or 2) shall have incurred nonjudicial
sanctions from an official public agency resulting from an admission of guilt
of violation of the same provision of this code.
2.   Not Knowingly Permitting: Notwithstanding the foregoing, such parent or
legal guardian shall not be presumed to have knowingly permitted such minor to
have committed such violation if such parent or legal guardian shall have,
prior to the occurrence of the repeated violation: a) delivered written notice
to the village chief of police of his or her inability to prevent such
continued or repeated violation; and b) requested the village chief of police,
or the proper public authority, to take the necessary legal proceedings toward
having such minor declared and dealt with as a delinquent minor. All notices
required to be delivered pursuant to this subsection shall be delivered either
by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service, with a certificate of personal service returned.
G.   Persons Or Entities Entitled To Enforce Provisions: The village is
entitled to enforce the liability imposed by this section.
H.   Common Law Damages: This section shall not affect the recovery of damages
in any other cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal
guardian is predicated on a common law basis. (Ord. 95-42, 12-11-1995)
5-8-4: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND E-CIGARETTES:
A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, and words shall have the meanings given to them in this subsection.
All terms, phrases, and words used in this section but not defined in this
subsection shall have the meanings given to them elsewhere in this code.
    E-CIGARETTE: An electronic device that typically includes a mouthpiece, a
heating element or atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits; provides a gas
derived from a liquid that includes nicotine, propylene glycol, or similar
substance and perhaps other substances; and is inhaled by a user in a manner
that simulates or resembles smoking. The term "e-cigarette" includes all manner
of these devices, regardless of the details of a device's appearance or
marketed name, that are manufactured to resemble a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
other smoking device. The term "e-cigarette" includes the cartridges and
component parts of an e-cigarette, individually or in any combination.
   MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any item, product, or substance containing tobacco leaf,
including specifically, but without limitation, cigarettes, cigars, snuff, and
pipe, chewing, or dipping tobacco.
B.   Sale By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor to sell, give,
dispense, furnish, or otherwise distribute any tobacco product or e-cigarette
to any person or business within the corporate limits of the village.
C.   Sale To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person or business to sell,
give, dispense, furnish, or otherwise distribute any tobacco product or e-
cigarette to any minor within the corporate limits of the village.
D.   Purchase By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase or
otherwise acquire any tobacco product or e-cigarette within the corporate
limits of the village.
E.   Possession And Use By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any minor to
possess or use a tobacco product or e-cigarette within the corporate limits of
the village; provided, however, that the possession or use of any tobacco
product or e-cigarette by any minor under the direct supervision and control of
the parent or guardian of any such minor in the privacy of such parent's or
guardian's home shall not be unlawful.
F.   Notice Required:
1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to engage in the sale or
distribution of tobacco products or e-cigarettes within the corporate limits of
the village unless such person or business prominently displays as part of
every display of tobacco products or e-cigarettes offered for sale the
following notice:
THE PURCHASE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR E-CIGARETTES BY ANY PERSON UNDER AGE OF 18
IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
2.   Such notice shall be displayed in red letters at least one inch (1") in
height on a white background.
G.   Responsibility For Agent Or Employee: Any act constituting a violation of
this section by an agent or employee of any person or business shall be deemed
and held to be the act of such person or business, and such person or business
shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act had been done by such
person or business personally.
H.   Penalties:
1.   Any minor who violates any provision of this section shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense, fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a second offense, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
third or subsequent offense.
2.   Any person, other than a minor, who violates any provision of this section
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a
first offense, four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a second offense, and six
hundred dollars ($600.00) for a third or subsequent offense. (Ord. 2015-15, 9-
28-2015)
CHAPTER 9
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-9A-1: Application Of Provisions
5-9A-2: Animal Houses
5-9A-3: Location (Rep. by Ord. 2025-21, 7-14-2025)
5-9A-4: Vicious, Dangerous Or Nondomesticated Animals
5-9A-5: Destroying Dangerous Animals
5-9A-6: Penalty
5-9A-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this article apply to all fowl and animals, domestic or
nondomestic, except for dogs or cats as defined in article B of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-10, 2-24-2025)
5-9A-2: ANIMAL HOUSES:
No owner of any animal will cause or permit any stable or place where any cow,
horse or other animal or fowl is kept to become unclean, filthy or unwholesome,
nor will such owner allow any animal or fowl infected with a contagious disease
to remain therein without the permission of the health officer. (Ord. 2025-10,
2-24-2025)
5-9A-3: LOCATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-21, 7-14-2025)
5-9A-4: VICIOUS, DANGEROUS OR NONDOMESTICATED ANIMALS:
No person may keep or allow to be kept on any premises in the village, any type
of vicious, fierce or dangerous nondomestic animals or nondomestic pets or any
type of poisonous snake or other type of poisonous reptile at any time whether
or not under guard, control or security. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-24-2025)
5-9A-5: DESTROYING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
The members of the police department, or any person in cases of emergency, are
authorized to euthanize dangerous animals of any kind when necessary for the
protection of any person or property. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-24-2025)
5-9A-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article will be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense will be deemed
committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2025-10, 2-24-2025)
ARTICLE B. DOGS
SECTION:
5-9B-1: Definitions
5-9B-2: Registration And County License Required; Fee
5-9B-3: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-9B-4: Collar And Tags
5-9B-5: Term Of License
5-9B-6: Running At Large; Impoundment Procedures
5-9B-7: Nuisance Dogs
5-9B-8: Vicious, Dangerous Dogs
5-9B-9: Destruction Of Certain Dogs
5-9B-10: Rabies Control
5-9B-11: Defecation Restrictions
5-9B-12: Violations; Penalties
5-9B-1: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the dog and not held by
leash, nor under the control of the owner or custodian of the dog or a member
of his immediate family of the age of fifteen (15) years or older.
ATTACK: To chase any person under any circumstances, including, but not limited
to, chasing a person on a bicycle or tricycle upon any street or sidewalk or to
otherwise charge at or upon any person with apparent intent to bite or
otherwise injure or molest such person.
DOG: All animals of the canine species, both male and female, wild and
domesticated, singular and plural.
LEASH: A cord or chain not more than six feet (6') in length, by which a dog is
controlled by the person accompanying it. (1988 Code § 7-4B-1)
5-9B-2: REGISTRATION AND COUNTY LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
Every owner of an unlicensed dog shall register the same with the county
department of health within five (5) days after he becomes the owner or keeper
of such dog, and each year as required by the county. At the time of
registration, the owner shall produce evidence of inoculation as required in
section
5-9B-3 of this article by a veterinarian certifying the inoculation for rabies
is valid for a period of at least one year and secure a county license by the
payment of the annual or alternative county license fee as provided in the
county animal/rabies control ordinance. (Ord. 97-8, 4-14-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9B-3: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
A.   Inoculation Requirements: Every owner of a dog in the village shall have
such dog inoculated for rabies as soon after he becomes the owner of the dog as
is practicable, by a veterinarian duly licensed as such by the state, or if
given by a veterinarian of another state, the veterinarian must possess
professional qualifications similar to those required by the state of Illinois,
and shall have in his possession at all times a certificate of such
veterinarian setting forth the date on which such dog was inoculated for
rabies. Except as otherwise provided herein, such inoculations shall be
performed before May 1 of each year, and shall be valid for such period of time
as certified by the state department of agriculture or its successor agency.
Rabies vaccines administered shall comply with the requirements established by
the state department of agriculture, and of rabies vaccine approved by the
United States department of agriculture and the state department of
agriculture. Failure to have such inoculations performed and reported to the
village clerk shall be deemed a violation of this article, and shall subject
the owner or custodian of such dog to penalty as provided herein.
B.   Age Of Dog: Unless provided otherwise by laws, rules or regulations of the
state department of health, state department of agriculture and the United
States department of agriculture and the county health department, no dog of
less than four (4) months of age shall be required to be immunized. The owner
or keeper of a dog who reaches four (4) months of age shall immediately cause
such dog to be immunized and file certification thereof with the village clerk
within ten (10) days after any such dog reaches four (4) months of age. (1988
Code § 7-4B-4)
5-9B-4: COLLAR AND TAGS:
A.   Every owner of a licensed dog shall maintain a collar or harness around
the neck of such dog with the current county license tag securely attached
thereto, and, in addition thereto, a metal tag bearing the name of the dog and
the name and address of the owner thereof. No person shall remove or take away
the collar or harness or license tag or ID tag from any dog.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any dog to possess,
harbor or keep any dog in the village without a current county license tag
attached to its collar or harness, or to harbor, keep or possess any dog for
which a license has been revoked. (1988 Code § 7-4B-5; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9B-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
All dogs shall be licensed by the county department of health as provided in
the county animal/rabies control ordinance. No county license shall be valid
for a period in excess of the duration of the effectiveness of the rabies
inoculation. (Ord. 97-8, 4-14-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9B-6: RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
A.   Prohibited; Females In Heat:
1.   Leash Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog
to permit such dog to run at large within the village at any time off the
premises of its owner or custodian. No female dog in heat shall be permitted to
be out of doors, except when controlled by the owner or custodian or other
person authorized by him, and firmly held upon an adequate hand leash, and any
female dog in heat not so held and controlled shall be deemed at large.
2.   Nuisance Declared; Impoundment: Any dog running at large in violation of
this section is hereby declared a public nuisance and may be picked up and
impounded in such place as is designated by the chief of police, if it is
licensed; or if unlicensed, shall be disposed of by the police department.
3.   Disposal By Police Department: Any dog found at large within the village
without a current county license tag attached to its collar or harness or for
which a county license has been revoked shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be
disposed of by the police department.
B.   Notice Requirements: The provisions relative to notice upon impounding,
redemption, county license fee, impounding fees and costs and inoculation as
set forth in subsection C of this section shall apply, provided nothing
contained herein shall relieve the owner of any impounded dog from prosecution
for violation of this article or any portion hereof. (1988 Code § 7-4B-7)
C.   Redemption; Fees: Upon the impounding of any dog by the police department,
the owner or custodian of such dog shall be immediately notified, if the same
can be determined, and redemption shall be permitted subject to limitations
provided herein and in other sections of this article; provided such redemption
is made within three (3) days of impounding; and, further provided, that the
owner or custodian shall pay any county license fee required, together with an
amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code for the cost of impounding such dog, and if the dog is in
the village pound, an amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code for the keeping of such dog, or when in such other
designated facility, the actual cost charged for keeping such dog. The owner or
custodian of any dog impounded who cannot produce evidence of current
inoculation shall cause such dog to be properly inoculated at the time of
making redemption of said dog. (Ord. 94-11, 4-11-1994; amd. 2009 Code)
D.   Third Impound: Upon the third impounding of any dog for running at large
in the village, said dog shall be declared a nuisance and the dog license of
its owner revoked by the village clerk, and said dog shall be permanently
removed from the village.
E.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Dog: If any dog is unredeemed at the end of
three (3) days after notice to the owner or custodian thereof or three (3) days
after reasonable efforts have been concluded by the police department to
determine and notify such owner or custodian, it shall be the duty of the chief
of police or other person designated by him to deliver the dog to a recognized
animal welfare shelter or to make such other disposition of the dog.
F.   Hindering Enforcement Officials Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to hinder
or molest any police officer, animal warden or other authorized person engaged
in the enforcement of this section. (1988 Code § 7-4B-7)
5-9B-7: NUISANCE DOGS:
A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of a dog to
suffer or permit such dog to bark or howl in a disturbing degree, to attack
other animals or persons, to damage public or private property or otherwise
create a public nuisance.
B.   Investigation And Hearing: Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this
article, the chief of police may, upon investigation and hearing, determine a
dog to be a nuisance and to pose a threat to the health, welfare and safety of
the village.
C.   Revocation Of Dog License; Disposition Of Dog: On making such a
determination, the village clerk may, in his discretion, revoke the dog license
issued for such dog and direct the owner or custodian to remove such dog
permanently from the village or direct the chief of police or his
representative to take possession of such dog and dispose of it as deemed
necessary by the chief of police.
D.   Custody Of Police Department: If deemed essential to the public
protection, the village president or village administrator may direct the chief
of police or his representative to take immediate possession of, and hold
custody of, any such dog pending investigation under this section. (1988 Code §
7-4B-8)
5-9B-8: VICIOUS, DANGEROUS DOGS:
A.   Determination Of Threat; Disposition Of Dog: Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this article, the chief of police may, on investigation,
determine a dog to be vicious and/or dangerous and to pose a threat of physical
injury to the person. Upon such determination, such vicious dog shall be
confined as provided in subsection B of this section, or the village clerk may,
in his discretion, direct the owner or custodian to remove such dog permanently
from the village or direct the chief of police or his representative to take
possession of such dog and dispose of it as deemed necessary by the chief of
police. If deemed essential to the public protection, the village president,
village clerk or village administrator may direct the chief of police or his
representative to take immediate possession of, and hold custody of, any such
dog pending investigation under this section.
B.   Confinement; Impoundment; Redemption: Any vicious and/or dangerous dog
shall be confined by its owner on the owner's premises at all times in such
manner that it cannot reach persons who may have occasion to lawfully enter
upon said premises. Any such dog which is not confined on its owner's premises
as provided herein is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such dog may
be apprehended and impounded upon the order of the chief of police or any
person charged with the enforcement of this article, and the village clerk
shall revoke the county license for such dog. The owner shall have no right to
redeem such dog unless he shall remove the same from the village immediately
upon redemption and shall not thereafter keep, harbor or maintain such dog in
the village at any time. A dog which has, without provocation, either bitten or
attacked any person shall, for a period of twenty four (24) months thereafter,
be presumed to be a dangerous dog for the purposes of this section. (1988 Code
§ 7-4B-9)
5-9B-9: DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS:
Any member of the police department may destroy any vicious or rabid dog found
at large within the village which poses an immediate threat of physical injury
to the residents and which cannot be taken up and impounded without undue risk
of physical injury. (1988 Code § 7-4B-10)
5-9B-10: RABIES CONTROL:
A.   Proclamation Of Emergency:
1.   Notice To Confine Dogs: Whenever deemed necessary for reasons of public
health, or whenever danger from hydrophobia or rabies is deemed to exist in the
village, the village president, by proclamation or notice published in one or
more newspapers having a general circulation in the village, may notify all
persons owning or keeping dogs, whether licensed or not, to keep them confined
within an enclosure from which escape is impossible, or to keep them securely
muzzled or restrained by a leash composed of chain or other indestructible
material for such time as may be designated by the proclamation or notice.
(1988 Code § 7-4B-11)
2.   Impoundment; Redemption; Fee: The running at large of any dog during the
period set forth in the proclamation or notice is hereby declared a nuisance,
and any dog found running at large shall be impounded in the manner herein
provided for unlicensed dogs; provided, that the redemption fee for cost of
impounding hereunder shall be an amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code.
3.   Unmuzzled Dogs: The provisions of impounding, redeeming and disposing of
unlicensed dogs shall also apply to such unmuzzled dogs except as specifically
modified in this subsection. (1988 Code § 7-4B-11; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Dog Bites; Confinement:
1.   Confinement And Observation; Examination By Veterinarian: It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any dog, when notified by the village or the police
department that such dog has bitten any person or animal, to sell or give away
such dog or to permit or allow such dog to be taken beyond the limits of the
county. It shall be the duty of such owner of a biting dog, upon receiving
notice from the village, to deliver said dog within twenty four (24) hours to a
licensed veterinarian for confinement and observation, at the expense of the
owner, for a period of ten (10) days. If, however, the dog is examined by a
licensed veterinarian within twenty four (24) hours after notification by the
village and found to be free of signs of rabies and the licensed veterinarian
is presented evidence that such dog has been inoculated against rabies more
than thirty (30) days prior to the biting and less than one year if a one year
vaccine is used, or less than three (3) years if a three (3) year vaccine is
used, and such veterinarian certifies that such dog is, in his opinion, free of
rabies, such dog shall, in lieu of veterinary hospital confinement, be confined
in the house of its owner in a manner that will prohibit said dog from escaping
or from biting any person or animal for the ten (10) day period, if the
licensed veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory. At the end of the
ten (10) day confinement period, the owner shall present the dog for
reexamination by the licensed veterinarian. Should the dog become ill, die or
escape during the ten (10) day period, the owner shall immediately notify the
village police department.
2.   Escape From Confinement: Any dog that escapes or is allowed to escape
during a period of home confinement shall, for the remainder of any confinement
period, be confined with a licensed veterinarian at the expense of the owner.
C.   Destruction Of Rabid Dogs: Any dog found to be rabid upon examination by a
veterinarian shall immediately be destroyed by the chief of police or a person
designated by him, or a licensed veterinarian, at the expense of the owner or
custodian of such dog. (1988 Code § 7-4B-12)
5-9B-11: DEFECATION RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog to suffer or permit
such dog, whether on leash or not, to perform any bowel movements or
eliminations of any kind on any public property or upon any private property
not owned by the owner or custodian of such dog. (1988 Code § 7-4B-13)
5-9B-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   Fines For Certain Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions
of section
5-9B-4, subsection 5-9B-6A or subsection 5-9B-10B or C of this article,
excepting the harboring or keeping of a dog for which a license has been
revoked, who complies with the provisions of this article before the
impoundment of his dog, may pay a fine without prosecution, by mailing or
delivery of the fine by check, money order or currency to the police
department. The fine for the first ticket on any dog shall be ten dollars
($10.00). The fine for a second violation by the same dog within any one
hundred eighty (180) day period of any prior violation shall be twenty dollars
($20.00). The fine for a third violation by the same dog within any one hundred
eighty (180) day period of any prior violation shall be thirty five dollars
($35.00). The fine for a fourth or subsequent violation within any one hundred
eighty (180) day period shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). All of the fines
herein enumerated, except that for a fourth or subsequent violation within any
one hundred eighty (180) day period, may be paid to the police department,
together with a signed plea of guilty and waiver of hearing, and must be made
within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of notice of the violation. Upon
the occurrence of a fourth or subsequent violation, and upon conviction thereof
within any one hundred eighty (180) day period, the owner or custodian of the
dog will be required to show cause, if any he can, before the village president
and board of trustees or any committee therefrom designated by the board, why
the dog should not be declared a public nuisance and removed from the village.
B.   Failure To Timely Pay; Fine Escalation: Upon the failure of the violator
to pay said fine within said forty eight (48) hour period, a second notice may
be sent, no earlier than five (5) days after the first notice of violation, and
the fine therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be in the amount of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the first violation as defined herein, thirty
dollars ($30.00) for the second violation as defined herein and in the amount
of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a third violation as defined herein, provided
said fines are paid within ten (10) days after the date of the second notice of
violation. Upon the failure of the violator to pay said fine after a second
notice within ten (10) days thereafter, a final notice may be sent, no earlier
than twelve (12) business days after the second notice of violation, and the
fine therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be in the amount of
twenty dollars ($20.00) for a first violation, and in the amount of forty
dollars ($40.00) for a second violation, and in the amount of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for a third violation of this article as defined herein.
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to require the giving of any
additional notices after the first notification is made. The transmittal of a
notice by registered or certified mail shall be deemed sufficient notice, if
mailed to the last known address of the violator, and notice shall be deemed to
have been accomplished even if there is a failure or refusal of the individual
to whom said notice is sent to receipt or accept the same.
C.   Payment Without Prosecution: Any owner or keeper of an unlicensed dog may
pay a fine without prosecution by mailing or delivery of the fine by check,
money order or currency to the police department. The fine shall be five
dollars ($5.00) if paid within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of the
notification of the violation. Upon the failure of the violator to pay said
fine within forty eight (48) hours, a second notice may be sent, no earlier
than five (5) days after the first notification of violation, and the fine
therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be in the amount of ten
dollars ($10.00), provided said fine is paid within ten (10) days after the
date of the second notice of violation. Upon the failure of the violator to pay
said fine after a second notice within ten (10) days thereafter, a final notice
may be sent, no earlier than twelve (12) days after the second notice of
violation, and the fine therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be
in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00), provided the same is paid within ten
(10) days after the date of any such notice. Nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to require the giving of any additional notice after the first
notification is made. The transmittal of a notice by registered or certified
mail shall be deemed sufficient notice if mailed to the last known address of
the violator, and notice shall be deemed to have been accomplished even if
there is a failure or refusal of the individual to whom the notice is sent to
receipt or accept the same. All fines paid pursuant to the provisions contained
herein shall be accompanied by a signed plea of guilty and a waiver of hearing.
D.   General Penalty: Unless otherwise provided herein, any owner or person who
violates any provision of this article, or any section hereof, shall, upon
conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) for the
first offense, not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) for a second offense
within any ninety (90) day period, not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00)
for a third offense within any ninety (90) day period, and not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a fourth or subsequent offense during any ninety (90) day
period, nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 96-21, 8-26-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE C. CATS
SECTION:
5-9C-1: Definitions
5-9C-2: Registration And County License Required; Fee
5-9C-3: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-9C-4: Collar, Tags And Bell
5-9C-5: Term Of License
5-9C-6: Stray Cats; Running At Large; Impoundment Procedures
5-9C-7: Nuisance Cats
5-9C-8: Vicious, Dangerous Cats
5-9C-9: Destruction Of Certain Cats
5-9C-10: Rabies Control
5-9C-11: Defecation Restrictions
5-9C-12: Violations; Penalties
5-9C-1: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the cat and not under
the control of the owner or custodian of the cat or a member of his immediate
family.
ATTACK: To chase any person under any circumstances, including, but not limited
to, chasing a person on a bicycle or tricycle upon any street or sidewalk or to
otherwise charge at or upon any person with apparent intent to bite or
otherwise injure or molest such person.
CAT: All animals of the feline species, both male and female, wild and
domesticated, singular and plural. (1988 Code § 7-4C-1)
5-9C-2: REGISTRATION AND COUNTY LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
Every owner of an unlicensed cat shall register the same with the county
department of health within five (5) days after he becomes the owner or keeper
of such cat, and each year as required by the county. At the time of
registration, the owner shall produce evidence of inoculation as required in
section
5-9C-3 of this article by a veterinarian certifying the inoculation for rabies
is valid for a period of at least one year and secure a county license by the
payment of the license fee as provided in the county animal/rabies control
ordinance. (Ord. 97-8, 4-14-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9C-3: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
A.   Inoculation Requirements: Every owner of a cat in the village shall have
such cat inoculated for rabies as soon after he becomes the owner of the cat as
it is practicable, by a veterinarian duly licensed as such by the state, or if
given by a veterinarian of another state, the veterinarian must possess
professional qualifications similar to those required by the state of Illinois,
and shall have in his possession at all times, a certificate of such
veterinarian setting forth the date on which such cat was inoculated for
rabies. Except as otherwise provided herein, such inoculations shall be
performed before May 1 of each year, and shall be valid for such period of time
as certified by the state department of agriculture or its successor agency.
Rabies vaccines administered shall comply with the requirements established by
the state department of agriculture, and of rabies vaccine approved by the
United States department of agriculture and the state department of
agriculture. Failure to have such inoculations performed and reported to the
chief of police and the village clerk shall be deemed a violation of this
article, and subject the owner or custodian of such cat to penalty as provided
herein.
B.   Age Of Cat: Unless provided otherwise by laws, rules or regulations of the
state department of health, state department of agriculture and the United
States department of agriculture and the county health department, no cat of
less than four (4) months of age shall be required to be immunized. The owner
or keeper of a cat who reaches four (4) months of age shall immediately cause
such cat to be immunized and file certification thereof with the village clerk
within ten (10) days after any such cat reaches four (4) months of age. (1988
Code § 7-4C-4)
5-9C-4: COLLAR, TAGS AND BELL:
A.   Every owner of a licensed cat shall maintain a collar or harness around
the neck of such cat with the current county license tag securely attached
thereto, and in addition thereto, a metal tag bearing the name of the cat and
the name and address of the owner thereof. No person shall remove or take away
the collar or harness or county license tag or ID tag from any cat.
B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any cat to possess,
harbor or keep any cat in the village without a current county license tag
attached to its collar or harness, or to harbor, keep or possess any cat for
which a license has been revoked.
C.   There shall also be attached to such cat a bell or other device capable of
making noise to serve as a warning to birds. (1988 Code § 7-4C-5; amd. 2009
Code)
5-9C-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
All cats shall be licensed by the county department of health as provided in
the county animal/rabies control ordinance. No license shall be valid for a
period in excess of the duration of the effectiveness of the rabies
inoculation. (Ord. 97-8, 4-14-1997)
5-9C-6: STRAY CATS; RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
A.   Stray Cats; Running At Large:
1.   Stray Cats Declared A Nuisance: Stray cats are a menace to public health
and endanger bird life, and the running at large of any cat within the limits
of the village is hereby declared to be a nuisance and prohibited. Any cats not
equipped with a tag around their collar identifying the owner thereof, or
without a bell or other device capable of making a noise shall be deemed a
stray cat.
2.   Running At Large Prohibited; Impoundment: It shall be unlawful for the
owner or custodian of any cat to permit such cat to run at large within the
village at any time off the premises of its owner or custodian. Any cat running
at large in violation of this section is hereby declared a public nuisance and
may be picked up and impounded in such place as is designated by the chief of
police, if it is licensed. If unlicensed, said cat shall be disposed of by the
police department.
3.   Disposal By Police Department: Any cat found at large within the village
without a current license tag attached to its collar or harness or for which a
license has been revoked shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be disposed of by
the police department.
B.   Notice Requirements: The provisions relative to notice upon impounding,
redemption, license fee, impounding fees and costs and inoculation as set forth
in subsection D of this section shall apply, provided nothing contained herein
shall relieve the owner of any impounded cat from prosecution for violation of
this article or any portion thereof. (1988 Code § 7-4C-7)
C.   Redemption; Fees: Upon the impounding of any cat by the police department,
the owner or custodian of such cat shall be immediately notified, if the same
can be determined, and redemption shall be permitted subject to limitations
provided herein and in other sections of this article, provided such redemption
is made within three (3) days of impounding; and, further provided, that the
owner or custodian shall pay any license fee required, together with the sum as
set out in section
1-12-3 of this code for the cost of impounding such cat, and if the cat is in
the village pound, the sum as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code for the keeping of such cat, or when in such other
designated facility, the actual cost charged for keeping such cat. The owner or
custodian of any cat impounded who cannot produce current evidence of
inoculation shall cause such cat to be properly inoculated at the time of
making redemption of said cat. (Ord. 94-11, 4-11-1994; amd. 2009 Code)
D.   Third Impound: Upon the third impounding of any cat for running at large
in the village, said cat shall be declared a nuisance and the cat license of
its owner revoked by the village clerk, and said cat shall be permanently
removed from the village.
E.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Cat: If any cat is unredeemed at the end of
three (3) days after notice to the owner or custodian thereof or three (3) days
after reasonable efforts have been concluded by the police department to
determine and notify such owner or custodian, it shall be the duty of the chief
of police or other person designated by him to deliver the cat to a recognized
animal welfare shelter or to make such other disposition of the cat as is
approved by the village president. (1988 Code § 7-4C-7)
F.   Female Cats In Heat: No female cat in heat shall be permitted to be out of
doors, except when controlled by the owner or custodian or other person
authorized by the owner or custodian of the age of fifteen (15) years or older,
and firmly held upon an adequate hand leash, and any female cat in heat not so
held and controlled shall be deemed at large. (1988 Code § 7-4C-7; amd. 2009
Code)
G.   Hindering Enforcement Officials Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to hinder
or molest any police officer, animal warden or other authorized person engaged
in the enforcement of this section. (1988 Code § 7-4C-7)
5-9C-7: NUISANCE CATS:
A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of a cat to
suffer or permit such cat to meow in a disturbing degree, to attack other
animals or persons, to damage public or private property or otherwise create a
public nuisance.
B.   Investigation And Hearing: Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this
article, the chief of police may, upon investigation and hearing, determine
that a cat is a nuisance and poses a threat to the health, welfare and safety
of the village.
C.   Revocation Of Cat License; Disposition Of Cat: On making such a
determination, the village clerk may, in his discretion, revoke the cat license
issued for such cat and direct the owner or custodian to remove such cat
permanently from the village or direct the chief of police or his
representative to take possession of such cat and dispose of it as deemed
proper by the chief of police. (1988 Code § 7-4C-9)
D.   Custody Of Police Department: If deemed essential to the public
protection, the village president or village administrator may direct the chief
of police or his representative to take immediate possession of, and hold
custody of, any such cat pending investigation under this section. (1988 Code §
7-4C-9; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9C-8: VICIOUS, DANGEROUS CATS:
A.   Determination Of Threat; Disposition Of Cat: Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this article, the chief of police may, upon investigation,
determine that a cat is vicious and/or dangerous and poses a threat of physical
injury to the person. Upon such determination, such vicious cat shall be
confined as provided in subsection B of this section, or the village clerk may,
in his discretion, direct the owner or custodian to remove such cat permanently
from the village or direct the chief of police or his representative to take
possession of such cat and dispose of it as deemed proper by the chief of
police. If deemed essential to the public protection, the village president or
village administrator may direct the chief of police or his representative to
take immediate possession of, and hold custody of, any such cat pending
investigation under this section. (1988 Code § 7-4C-10; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Confinement; Impoundment; Redemption: Any vicious and/or dangerous cat
shall be confined by its owner on the owner's premises at all times in such
manner that it cannot reach persons who may have occasion to lawfully enter
upon said premises. Any such cat which is not confined on its owner's premises
as provided herein is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such cat may
be apprehended and impounded upon the order of the chief of police or any
person charged with the enforcement of this article, and the village clerk
shall revoke the license for such cat. The owner shall have no right to redeem
such cat unless he shall remove the same from the village immediately upon
redemption and shall not thereafter keep, harbor or maintain such cat in the
village at any time. A cat which has, without provocation, either bitten or
attacked any person shall, for a period of twenty four (24) months thereafter,
be presumed to be a dangerous cat for the purposes of this section. (1988 Code
§ 7-4C-10)
5-9C-9: DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN CATS:
Any member of the police department may destroy any vicious or rabid cat found
at large within the village which poses an immediate threat of physical injury
to the residents and which cannot be taken up and impounded without undue risk
of physical injury. (1988 Code § 7-4C-11)
5-9C-10: RABIES CONTROL:
A.   Proclamation Of Emergency:
1.   Notice To Confine Cats: Whenever deemed necessary for reasons of public
health, or whenever danger from hydrophobia or rabies is deemed to exist in the
village, the village president, by proclamation or notice published in one or
more newspapers having a general circulation in the village, may notify all
persons owning or keeping cats, whether licensed or not, to keep them confined
within an enclosure from which escape is impossible, or to keep them securely
muzzled or restrained by a leash composed of chain or other indestructible
material for such time as may be designated by the proclamation or notice.
(1988 Code § 7-4C-12)
2.   Impoundment; Redemption Fee: The running at large of any cat during the
period set forth in the proclamation or notice is hereby declared a nuisance,
and any cat found running at large shall be impounded in the manner herein
provided for unlicensed cats; provided, that the redemption fee for cost of
impounding hereunder shall be an amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code.
3.   Unmuzzled Cats: The provisions of impounding, redeeming and disposing of
unlicensed cats shall also apply to such unmuzzled cats except as specifically
modified in this subsection. (1988 Code § 7-4C-12; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Cat Bites:
1.   Owner Requirements And Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for the owner or
keeper of any cat or other animal, when notified that such cat or animal has
bitten any person, to sell or give away such cat or animal or to permit it to
be taken beyond the control of the village. It shall be the duty of the owner
or keeper, upon receiving notice from the police department that the cat or
animal has bitten any person, to deliver such cat or animal to a licensed
veterinarian pursuant to the provisions of subsection B2 of this section for
confinement, observation and examination, and if the cat or animal is
determined to be rabid, for destruction as provided in said subsection. (1988
Code § 7-4C-8)
2.   Confinement And Observation; Examination By Veterinarian: It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any cat, when notified by the village or the police
department that such cat has bitten any person or animal, to sell or give away
such cat or to permit or allow such cat to be taken beyond the limits of the
county. It shall be the duty of such owner of a biting cat, upon receiving
notice from the village, to deliver said cat within twenty four (24) hours to a
licensed veterinarian for confinement and observation, at the expense of the
owner, for a period of ten (10) days. If, however, the cat is examined by a
licensed veterinarian within twenty four (24) hours after notification by the
village and found to be free of signs of rabies, and the licensed veterinarian
is presented evidence that such cat has been inoculated against rabies, more
than thirty (30) days prior to the biting, and less than one year if a one year
vaccine is used, or less than three (3) years if a three (3) year vaccine is
used, and such veterinarian certifies that such cat is, in his opinion, free of
rabies, such cat shall, in lieu of veterinary hospital confinement, be confined
in the house of its owner in a manner that will prohibit said cat from escaping
or from biting any person or animal for the ten (10) day period, if the
licensed veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory. At the end of the
ten (10) day confinement period, the owner shall present the cat for
reexamination by the licensed veterinarian. Should the cat become ill, die or
escape during the ten (10) day period, the owner shall immediately notify the
police department.
3.   Escape From Home Confinement: Any cat that escapes or is allowed to escape
during a period of home confinement shall, for the remainder of any confinement
period, be confined with a licensed veterinarian at the expense of the owner.
C.   Destruction Of Rabid Cat: Any cat found to be rabid upon examination by a
veterinarian shall immediately be destroyed by the chief of police or a person
designated by him, or a licensed veterinarian, at the expense of the owner or
custodian of such cat. (1988 Code § 7-4C-13)
5-9C-11: DEFECATION RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a cat to suffer or permit
such cat to perform any bowel movements or eliminations of any kind on any
public property or upon on any private property not owned by the owner or
custodian of such cat. (1988 Code § 7-4C-14)
5-9C-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   Fines For Certain Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions
of section
5-9C-4, subsection 5-9C-6A or G or subsection 5-9C-10B or C of this article,
excepting the harboring or keeping of a cat for which a license has been
revoked, who complies with the provisions of this article before the
impoundment of his cat, may pay a fine without prosecution by mailing or
delivery of the fine by check, money order or currency to the police
department. The fine for the first ticket on any cat shall be ten dollars
($10.00). The fine for a second violation by the same cat within any one
hundred eighty (180) day period of any prior violation shall be twenty dollars
($20.00). The fine for a third violation by the same cat within any one hundred
eighty (180) day period of any prior violation shall be thirty five dollars
($35.00). The fine for a fourth or subsequent violation within any one hundred
eighty (180) day period shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). All of the fines
herein enumerated, except that for a fourth or subsequent violation within any
one hundred eighty (180) day period, may be paid to the police department,
together with a signed plea of guilty and waiver of hearing, and must be made
within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of notice of the violation. Upon
the occurrence of a fourth or subsequent violation, and upon conviction thereof
within any one hundred eighty (180) day period, the owner or custodian of the
cat will be required to show cause, if any he can, before the village president
and board of trustees or any committee therefrom designated by the board, why
the cat should not be declared a public nuisance and removed from the village.
B.   Failure To Pay: Upon the failure of the violator to pay said fine within
forty eight (48) hours, a second notice may be sent, no earlier than forty
eight (48) hours after the first notice of violation, and the fine therefor may
be paid in the same manner, but shall be in the amount of fifteen dollars
($15.00) for the first violation as defined herein, thirty dollars ($30.00) for
the second violation as herein defined herein and fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
third violation as defined herein, provided said fines are paid within ten (10)
days after the date of the second notice of violation. Upon the failure of the
violator to pay said fine after a second notice within ten (10) days
thereafter, a final notice may be sent, no earlier than twelve (12) business
days after the second notice of violation, and the fine therefor may be paid in
the same manner, but shall be in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the
first violation, and in the amount of forty dollars ($40.00) for a second
violation, and in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a third
violation of this article as defined herein. Nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to require the giving of any additional notices after the first
notification is made. The transmittal of a notice by registered or certified
mail shall be deemed sufficient notice, if mailed to the last known address of
the violator, and notice shall be deemed to have been accomplished even if
there is a failure or refusal of the individual to whom said notice is sent to
receipt or accept the same.
C.   Payment Without Prosecution: Any owner or keeper of an unlicensed cat may
pay a fine without prosecution, by mailing or delivery of the fine by check,
money order or currency to the police department. The fine shall be five
dollars ($5.00) if paid within forty eight (48) hours after receipt of the
notification of the violation. Upon the failure of the violator to pay said
fine within forty eight (48) hours, a second notice may be sent, no earlier
than five (5) days after the first notification of violation, and the fine
therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be in the amount of ten
dollars ($10.00), provided said fine is paid within ten (10) days after the
date of the second notice of violation. Upon the failure of the violator to pay
said fine after a second notice within ten (10) days thereafter, a final notice
may be sent, no earlier than twelve (12) days after the second notice of
violation, and the fine therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be
in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00), provided the same is paid within ten
(10) days after the date of any such notice. Nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to require the giving of any additional notice after the first
notification is made. The transmittal of a notice by registered or certified
mail shall be deemed sufficient notice, if mailed to last known address of the
violator, and notice shall be deemed to have been accomplished even if there is
a failure or refusal of the individual to whom the notice is sent to receipt or
accept the same. All fines paid pursuant to the provisions contained herein
shall be accompanied by a signed plea of guilty and a waiver of hearing.
D.   General Penalty: Unless otherwise provided herein, any owner or person who
violates any provision of this article, or any section hereof, shall, upon
conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) for the
first offense, not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) for a second offense
within any ninety (90) day period, not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00)
for a third offense within any ninety (90) day period, and not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a fourth or subsequent offense during any ninety (90) day
period, nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 96-21, 8-26-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE D. ACCESSORY ANIMAL LICENSES
SECTION:
5-9D-1: Purpose
5-9D-2: General Provisions
5-9D-3: Advisory Review Of Initial Applications
5-9D-4: Inspections
5-9D-5: Chicken-Specific Regulations
5-9D-6: Bee-Specific Regulations
5-9D-7: Penalty
5-9D-1: PURPOSE:
Accessory animal licenses are established to provide a mechanism for the lawful
keeping of certain classes of animals that are uncommon in residential areas
and that, if kept improperly, would injure the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare. (Ord. 2021-2, 2-8-2021)
5-9D-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
A.   Enforcement Officer: The Village Administrator or his or her designee
shall be responsible for the review, issuance, enforcement, and revocation of
accessory animal licenses pursuant to this Article.
B.   Eligibility; License Types: Only a resident of a property used as a
single-family dwelling may apply for and receive an accessory animal license to
keep either chickens or bees on their property.
C.   Form of Application: Applications for an accessory animal license must be
made in a form and provided in a number determined by the Village
Administrator.
D.   License Term: Accessory animal licenses issued shall be valid from the
date of issuance until the next succeeding March 1. Licenses must be renewed
annually.
E.   Maximum Number of Licenses: A maximum of fifteen (15) accessory animal
licenses may be issued at any time.
F.   Application Fee: A non-refundable application fee shall accompany each
application in the amount specified in Section
1-12-3 of this Code. Said fee is imposed to defray the costs and expenses of
the Village's consideration of the application, regardless of the ultimate
approval or disapproval of the license sought.
G.   Non-Transferable License: Licenses issued shall only be valid for the
applicant listed on the application. A new license and application fee shall be
required in the event that an applicant or licensee moves to a new address or
transfers the chickens or bees to a person not already possessing an accessory
animal license.
H.   Conditions of Approval: At the time of issuance or renewal, the Village
Administrator may impose specific conditions upon the recipient of an accessory
animal license to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other property in
the vicinity of the licensed activity. Such conditions shall be expressly set
forth in the license. Violation of any such condition or limitation shall be a
violation of this Article and shall constitute grounds for revocation of the
license.
I.   Revocation: Any license issued under pursuant to this Article may be
revoked by the Village Administrator for a violation of any condition imposed
upon a license, any provision hereof, or upon satisfactory proof that the
licensed activity was conducted in a manner detrimental to the public safety,
health, or morals. Such revocation may be in addition to the imposition of any
other fines or penalties under this Article or Code and shall be no defense to
a prosecution for such violation.
J.   Appeal: In the event any applicant or licensee shall be refused a license
by the Village Administrator, have their license revoked, or shall be otherwise
aggrieved by the administration of this Article, he or she shall have the right
to appeal from the decision of the Village Administrator to the Board of
Trustees, who shall have the power to reverse or otherwise modify the decision
of the Village Administrator. Such appeal shall be in writing, addressed to the
President and Board of Trustees setting forth in detail the grounds of such
appeal. An appeal must be sought no later than thirty (30) days after the date
of the contested action. (Ord. 2021-2, 2-8-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-1, 1-10-2022)
5-9D-3: ADVISORY REVIEW OF INITIAL APPLICATIONS:
Prior to reaching a decision upon an initial application for an accessory
animal license, the Village Administrator shall solicit the review and
recommendation of an advisory body of the Village as to whether the application
should be approved or disapproved and as to what, if any, protective conditions
should be imposed upon the license. The recommendation shall occur after a
public meeting held before the advisory body, only after the Village provides
notice to adjoining property owners and residents via first class mail at least
two (2) weeks in advance of the meeting. In reviewing the application and the
proposed license, among other factors, the advisory body shall give due
consideration to:
A.   General Standard: The extent that the application demonstrates the
applicant will provide adequately for the health, shelter, food, water, yard
conditions of the licensed animals.
B.   Compliance with the Regulations: The extent that the application
demonstrates that the applicant and the proposed activity will comply with all
standards provided in this Article.
C.   Lot Size and Situation: The shape, size, and location of the lot,
principal structure, and animal-keeping area; and the extent that these
conditions tend to mitigate or exaggerate the potential that an adjoining
property owner or others may be negatively affected by the proposed animal-
keeping.
D.   Prior Violations: If the applicant has been the subject of any valid
complaint documenting any violation of a nuisance, property maintenance or
animal control regulation contained in this Code.
E.   Experience or Training: The applicant's training, education, or prior
experience in keeping the subject type of animal.
F.   Unique Health Circumstances: If residents of adjoining or nearby property
present evidence that they suffer from a health condition whereby the proposed
animals may pose a unique risk to their health.
G.   Public Testimony: Testimony and other evidence received from the public
during the advisory body's consideration of the application, to the extent that
such testimony concerns the specific circumstances of the application and not
the general propriety of the proposed activity. (Ord. 2021-2, 2-8-2021)
5-9D-4: INSPECTIONS:
A.   Initial Inspection: An on-site inspection shall be performed prior to
first issuance of an accessory animal license, and from time to time as
described herein. The applicant or licensee shall permit such inspection at
reasonable times and upon reasonable notice. Said consent to inspect is a
condition of any accessory animal license, and refusal shall be cause for
rejection of an application or revocation of an accessory animal license.
B.   Additional Inspections: The Village Administrator may perform an
inspection of the property of an applicant or licensee for any of the following
reasons:
1.   The Village Administrator or his or her designee requires an inspection as
a condition of renewal of an accessory animal license;
2.   The applicant or licensee has received a citation for violation of any
provision of this Code related to animal-keeping within the preceding twelve
(12) months; or,
3.   The Village has probable cause to believe a violation of this Code related
to the licensed activity exists.
C.   Inspection Criteria: The inspection shall verify that the applicant or
licensee provides adequate shelter, food, water, yard condition, yard security,
and other necessary conditions to preserve the health of the animals; and
otherwise complies with the requirements of this Article. If any deficiency of
these conditions is found, the applicant or licensee must correct such
violation within such period of time as the Village shall direct. (Ord. 2021-2,
2-8-2021)
5-9D-5: CHICKEN-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
In addition to any other requirement of this Article, the following conditions
shall apply to the keeping of chickens authorized by an accessory animal
license:
A.   Limit Upon Number: No fewer than two (2) adult chickens, and no more than
six (6), adult chickens may be kept on the property of a licensee at any one
time.
B.   Female Chickens: Only female chickens may be owned or maintained on a
licensee's property.
C.   Sale of Eggs Prohibited: The licensee shall not sell eggs produced upon
the property.
D.   Slaughtering: No slaughtering of chickens shall occur in public view.
E.   Chicken Enclosure:
1.   Chickens shall be kept in a pen, coop, run, or chicken tractor.
2.   No chicken enclosure shall be erected or maintained within ten (10') feet
of any occupied residence other than that of the licensee.
3.   Chicken enclosures shall only be erected or maintained in the rear yard
and behind the principal structure on the licensee's lot; except that the
advisory body reviewing an application may, for good cause shown, allow
enclosures to be sited at an alternative location on a lot that provides a
similar level of visual screening, security, and privacy. No special notice or
procedure is required to grant this exception.
4.   Chicken enclosures shall provide at least four (4) square feet of area for
each chicken housed.
5.   Chicken enclosures must be maintained in a sound and useable condition.
6.   Chicken enclosures must be constructed of sturdy and weather-resistant
materials, such as, without limitation: sturdy wire, wood, hardware cloth.
7.   Chicken enclosures shall be resistant to predators. All access doors must
be able to be shut and locked. All opening windows and vents must be covered
with predator-proof wire with less than one (1") inch openings.
F.   Open Space: Chickens shall be provided with adequate open space in the
form of either an enclosed chicken run or a yard fully enclosed by a fence.
G.   Sanitation: The enclosure and open space must be kept clean and sanitary
at all times.
H.   Rodent Protection: All feed and other items associated with the keeping of
chickens shall be protected from or to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents
from gaining access to or coming into contact with the feed.
I.   Nuisances. No licensee shall permit:
1.   Noxious or offensive odors from chicken-keeping, including the odor of
chickens or manure, to be perceptible at or beyond the boundary of the
licensee's property;
2.   Offensive noise from chickens that disturbs the peace at any time; or
3.   Any other public or private nuisance resulting from the licensed activity,
whether by litter, droppings, feathers, waste, or attraction of pests or
rodents.
J.   State Registration. The licensee shall submit a livestock premises
registration form to the Illinois Department of Agriculture, and shall provide
a copy of the submitted form to the Village unless the Department shall stop
accepting residential chicken registrations. (Ord. 2021-2, 2-8-2021)
5-9D-6: BEE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
In addition to any other requirement of this Article, the following conditions
shall apply to beekeeping authorized by an accessory animal license:
A.   Limit Upon Number: No more than three (3) hives may be kept upon a
property.
B.   Hives:
1.   No hive shall be erected or maintained within five (5') feet of any
property line; or within ten (10') feet of any sidewalk, path, or residence.
2.   Hives must have removable combs that can be inspected.
3.   Hives must be maintained in a sound and useable condition.
4.   Hives shall only be erected or maintained in the rear yard and behind the
principal structure on the lot.
C.   Fences and Barriers:
1.   Enclosure: Except where a residential rear yard is fenced, an area no less
than twenty (20') feet by twenty five (25') feet shall be enclosed by fencing
or a hedge with a secure gate.
2.   Flyway Barrier: A flyway barrier shall be maintained at least six (6')
feet in height consisting of a solid wall, fence, dense vegetation or
combination thereof that is parallel to the property line and extends ten (10')
feet beyond the colony in each direction so that all bees are forced to fly at
an elevation of at least six (6') feet above ground level over the property
lines.
3.   A single structure may satisfy both the enclosure and flyway barrier
requirements.
4.   Signage shall be posted on the licensed property warning of the presence
of a bee hive. Such signage shall comply with all other regulations of this
Code.
D.   Water: Each licensee must ensure that a convenient source of water is
available at all times to the bees so that the bees will not congregate at
swimming pools or other water sources where they may cause human, bird, or
domestic pet contact. The water shall be maintained so as not to become
stagnant.
E.   Queens: In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusually aggressive
characteristics by stinging or attempting to sting without due provocation, or
exhibits an unusual disposition towards swarming, the colony shall be re-
queened. Queens must be selected from stock bred for gentleness and non-
swarming characteristics.
F.   State Registration: The licensee shall submit a colony registration form
to the Illinois Department of Agriculture, and shall provide a copy of the
submitted form to the Village unless the Department shall stop accepting
residential hive registrations. (Ord. 2021-2, 2-8-2021)
5-9D-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than the maximum provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2021-2, 2-8- 2021)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Riding On Certain Vehicles Or Parts Of Vehicles
6-1-3: Snow Emergency; One-Way Traffic
6-1-4: Violations; Penalties
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100
et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the village. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title if
proceeded hereunder. (2009 Code)
6-1-2: RIDING ON CERTAIN VEHICLES OR PARTS OF VEHICLES:
A.   Bicycles, Toy Vehicles, Skates:
1.   Bicycles, Motorcycles, Toy Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person
riding a bicycle, motorcycle or any toy vehicle on any street, to cling to or
to attach himself or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon. (1970
Code § 25.29)
2.   Skates, Coasters: It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates,
rollerblades, skateboards 1 , line skates, a coaster, sled or other toy vehicle
to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk. (1970 Code § 25.30; amd. 2009
Code)
B.   Riding On Fenders, Running Boards: It shall be unlawful for any person to
ride upon the fenders, running board or outside step of any vehicle. (1970 Code
§ 25.31)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-1-17G of this code.
6-1-3: SNOW EMERGENCY; ONE-WAY TRAFFIC:
A.   Authority To Restrict Usage:
1.   Village President: Whenever deemed necessary, due to an accumulation of
snow upon any street or roadway within the village, the village president, or
in his absence, the president pro tem, shall be empowered to restrict usage
thereof to one-way vehicular traffic. (Ord. 79-1, 1-29-1979)
2.   Absence Of Village President: The member of the board of trustees with the
greatest seniority on the board of trustees, who is present in the area and
able to act, is hereby empowered and authorized to act as the president pro tem
for the purposes of this section, during the period of absence of the village
president, or during the period of his inability to act. (Res. 79-3, 2-13-1979)
B.   Time Period: Such restrictions shall continue until two-way traffic can be
reestablished, but in no event shall it exceed twenty one (21) days unless
approved by the board of trustees.
C.   Posting Signs: The village administrator shall, upon direction by the
village president or the president pro tem, cause the posting of emergency
traffic guidance signs on such streets and roadways as deemed necessary during
the period of such declaration of emergency.
D.   Noncompliance A Violation: It shall be a violation of this section for any
owner or operator of a vehicle to operate or permit the operation of any such
vehicle upon any such street or roadway during such period of emergency,
contrary to the posted traffic guidance signs. (Ord. 79-1, 1-29-1979)
6-1-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
A.   Police Authority To Enforce: It shall be the duty of the chief of police
and the police officers of the village to patrol the streets in the village and
to make arrests for violations of the provisions of this title. (1970 Code §
25.54)
B.   Penalties And Fines Imposed:
1.   Misdemeanor Violation: It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any
of the provisions of this title unless such violation is by any other act or
law of this state declared to be a felony.
2.   Misdemeanor Penalty:
a.   Penalty: Every person found guilty of a misdemeanor for a violation of any
of the provisions of this title for which another penalty is not provided shall
be punished by a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than the
maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1970 Code § 25.55; amd. 2009 Code)
b.   Remittance Of Fines; Failure To Pay: Fines shall be remitted in the amount
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for any such offense. Upon the failure of the
violator to pay said fine within five (5) village business days, a second
notice may be sent no earlier than ten (10) days after the first notification
of violation, and the fine therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall
be in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon failure of the violator to pay
said fine after a second notice within twenty (20) days thereafter, a final
notice may be sent, no earlier than thirty (30) days after the second notice of
violation, and the fine therefor may be paid in the same manner, but shall be
in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00). Nothing contained herein shall
be deemed to require giving of any additional notice after the first
notification is made. The transmittal of a notice by registered or certified
mail shall be deemed sufficient notice, if mailed to the last known address of
the violator, and notice shall be deemed to have been accomplished even if
there is a failure or refusal of the individual to whom the notice is sent to
receipt or accept the same. All fines paid pursuant to the provisions contained
herein shall be accompanied by a signed plea of guilty, and a waiver of
hearing. (Ord. 96-21, 8-26-1996)
c.   Suspension Of Driving Privileges: In addition to any fines or penalties
herein provided for the violation of provisions of this title, any court of
record may, upon conviction therefor in such court, enter an order prohibiting
such person so convicted from driving a motor vehicle in this state for a
period not exceeding one year. A violation of such order shall constitute a
contempt of court and may be punished accordingly. (1970 Code § 25.55)
d.   Excess Load Limits; Fine Pursuant To Statute: Any person violating any of
the load limit provisions of section
6-7-5 of this title shall be fined in the amount as set forth in the provisions
of the Illinois motor vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, in effect
from time to time for the excess load limits, but not to exceed the amount
otherwise permitted by the statutes of the state for violations of municipal
ordinances. (Ord. 78-18, 7-24-1978)
C.   Disposition Of Fines And Penalties; Duties Of Officials:
1.   Fines and penalties recovered under the provisions of this title shall be
paid over to the village treasurer.
2.   Failure, refusal, or neglect on the part of any judicial or other officer
or employee receiving or having custody of any such fine or forfeiture to
account for or pay over any such fine or forfeiture to the village treasurer
shall constitute misconduct in office and shall be grounds for removal
therefrom. (1970 Code § 25.56)
D.   Liability Of Owner Or Operator: It is unlawful for the owner or any other
person employing or otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or
knowingly to permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street of the village
in any manner contrary to this title. (1970 Code § 25.57)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: License Required; Liability Of Vehicle Owner Or Lessee
6-2-2: Application For License; Issuance
6-2-3: License Term And Fees
6-2-4: Stickers Required
6-2-5: Penalty
6-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; LIABILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER OR LESSEE:
A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person residing within the
village to use or cause or permit any of its agents or employees to use any
wagon or motor vehicle upon the streets, avenues or alleys of the village
unless such wagon or vehicle be licensed as hereinafter provided. (1970 Code §
26.01)
B.   Owner Or Lessee Liable: The housing, garaging or otherwise keeping of any
wagon or motor vehicle in the village, or its usage primarily in the village,
shall subject the owner of said vehicle to the provisions of this title. The
registration of a wagon or motor vehicle with the state of Illinois with an
address in the village shall be prima facie evidence of the usage, keeping,
housing or garaging of said wagon or motor vehicle in the village. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to both the owner of a wagon or motor
vehicle and the lessee thereof, and its registration to a leasing company or
lessor outside of the corporate limits of the village shall not relieve the
owner or lessee for responsibility of registration thereof.
C.   Exceptions:
1.   Taxing Agencies. All vehicles owned or operated by entities which levy
taxes are exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
2.   New Residents. Starting on the day they establish residence, a new Village
resident has 30 days to obtain a license for any vehicles they own or lease
before being in violation of any Section of this Chapter.
3.   Vehicle Purchases. Starting on the day of sale or lease, the purchaser or
lessee of a vehicle has 30 days to obtain a license before being in violation
of any Section of this Chapter. (Ord. 75-20, 12-9-1975; amd. Ord. 2022-19, 5-
23-2022)
6-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
A.   Application: Any person desiring a license for any such wagon or vehicle
shall file an application with the village clerk upon a form to be provided by
him, setting forth the following:
1.   The name and address of the applicant;
2.   A description of the wagon or vehicle for which the license is desired;
3.   The place where such wagon, or vehicle for which the license is desired,
is usually kept when not in use and the place where such animal or animals
drawing such wagon or vehicle is or are to be kept;
4.   The number and kinds of other wagons or vehicles kept by said applicant at
such place;
5.   In case the application is made for a license for a motor vehicle, whether
or not such motor vehicle is used or is to be used for pleasure; and
6.   Such other information as may be prescribed.
B.   Issuance Of License: Upon the payment by the applicant of the license fee
hereinafter provided to the village clerk, the village clerk shall issue or
cause to be issued a license authorizing the use of such wagons or vehicles
within the village until the expiration of such license. (1970 Code § 26.02)
6-2-3: LICENSE TERM AND FEES:
A.   Term Of License: Commencing April 1, 1984, the annual license period for
all motor vehicles, trucks, motorcycles and motorized bicycles, tricycles and
vehicles of every other nature and description shall be for the period
beginning on April 1 of each year and ending on March 31 of the following year.
B.   Fees Imposed: The license fee, as set out in section 1-12-3 of this code,
under the category "license fees", to be paid annually to the village clerk,
shall be for the following:
      Motor vehicles other than those that fall within the categories listed
below.
      Each vehicle registered in the name of the person for persons sixty five
(65) years of age or older.
      Electric vehicles bearing an Illinois “EL” license plate shall be a
separate category of license until May 1, 2025.
      Trucks.
      Motorcycles, motorized bicycles, or motorized tricycles and other
motorized vehicles. (amd. 2009 Code)
C.   Prorate Fee: If an owner or operator comes into possession of any such
vehicle after the expiration of six (6) months of the license period, he shall
pay one-half (1/2) of the annual fee.
   D.   Reduced Fee For College Students: Notwithstanding anything contained in
this chapter to the contrary, whenever any such vehicle is located outside the
village, for over six (6) months of any year, and used by a college or
university student at such college or university, a reduced fee equal to one-
half (½) of the license fee set forth herein shall be paid for a vehicle
sticker for such automobile, subject to the following terms and restrictions:
1.   The reduced fee is applicable to one vehicle only, per student, and shall
be available only for that year or years of enrollment as a full time college
or university student.
2.   Applications must be accompanied by proof of registration in a full time
curriculum in a college or university located outside the village, and
certified by such institution.
E.   Failure To Pay Fee:
1.   Notification Of Violation; Payment Of Fine: Any person violating any of
the provisions of this section, who complies with the provisions of this
section before prosecution therefor, may pay a fine without prosecution by
mailing or delivery of the fine by check, money order, or currency to the
department of police of the village. The fine shall be five dollars ($5.00) if
paid within five (5) days after receipt of the notification of the violation.
Upon the failure of the violator to pay said fine within five (5) days, a
second notice may be sent, no earlier than ten (10) days after the first
notification of violation, and the fine therefor may be paid in the same
manner, but shall be in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00), provided said fine
is paid within ten (10) days after the date of the second notice of violation.
Upon the failure of the violator to pay said fine after a second notice within
ten (10) days thereafter, a final notice may be sent, no earlier than twelve
(12) days after the second notice of violation, and the fine therefor may be
paid in the same manner, but shall be in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00),
provided the same is paid within ten (10) days after the date of any such
notice. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to require the giving of any
additional notice after the first notification is made. The transmittal of a
notice by registered or certified mail shall be deemed sufficient notice if
mailed to the last known address of the violator, and notice shall be deemed to
have been accomplished even if there is a failure or refusal of the individual
to whom the notice is sent to receipt or accept the same. All fines paid
pursuant to the provisions contained herein shall be accompanied by a signed
plea of guilty and a waiver of hearing, an application for license accompanied
by the required fee therefor, and the penalty described in subsection E2 of
this section.
2.   Penalty Added To Annual Fee: A penalty of fifty percent (50%) will be
added to the annual license fee of the above described vehicles and trucks
unless payment therefor is made on or before May 1 of the year for which such
license is required.
F.   Sale Of Vehicle; License Transfer Fee: When any such motor vehicle, truck,
motorcycle, motor bicycle or motor tricycle, or other motorized vehicle is
sold, any valid existing and outstanding vehicle sticker issued therefor shall
be automatically revoked. The new owner of such vehicle, if subject to
licensing by the village, shall make application for a vehicle license in
accordance with the provisions of this section. If such motor vehicle is traded
in or otherwise exchanged by the owner thereof, for a new or used vehicle of
the same category, upon application for a vehicle license, a new license shall
be issued to such owner for the remainder of the unexpired term of the existing
license at a charge as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees", for transfer of such
vehicle license. (amd. 2009 Code) (Ord., 12-12-1978; amd. Ord. 82-13, 10-25-
1982; Ord. 88-2, 2-8-1988; Ord. 97-9, 4-24-1997; Ord. 2020-7, 4-27-2020)
6-2-4: STICKERS REQUIRED:
A.   Issuance Of Sticker; Display Required: Upon the issuance of said license,
the village clerk shall deliver to the applicant a sticker bearing the name of
the village and the number and name of the class to which said wagon or vehicle
belongs and the year for which said license is issued; and it shall be the duty
of such applicant to affix such sticker in a conspicuous place upon the front
of such wagon or vehicle or upon the right side of a horsedrawn wagon or
vehicle, or if such vehicle be an automobile of any kind, then such sticker
shall be placed upon the lower right hand side of the windshield as near to the
base of the same as possible; and it shall be unlawful for any person to use or
cause or permit any agent or employee to use any such wagon or vehicle,
although duly licensed, upon the streets, alleys or avenues of the village
unless such sticker is affixed as above provided. Village vehicle plates issued
for motorcycles or motor driven cycles shall be affixed to the rear license
plate on the lower right hand side thereof in such a manner as not to obstruct
the state of Illinois license plate. (1970 Code § 26.04; amd. Ord., 10-9-1973)
B.   Failure To Display Sticker: Any person who violates this section by
failure to display a necessary vehicle sticker, or who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, and who obtains the necessary license for his motor
vehicle, may pay a fine without prosecution by mailing or delivery of the sum
of twenty five dollars ($25.00) by check, money order or currency to the
department of police of the village. Such remittance must be accompanied by a
signed plea of guilty and waiver of hearing, and must be made within five (5)
village business days after receipt of notice of the violation, or after such
notice is placed on the vehicle. (Ord. 96-21, 8-26-1996)
6-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than the amount set out in section
1-12-3 of this code nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense, and each day any wagon or
vehicle is used upon the streets, alleys or avenues of the village without
having procured a license and without having complied with the provisions of
this chapter shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 96-21,
8-26-1996; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2014-9, 4-28-2014)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: License Required
6-3-3: Application For License; Conditions For Issuance; Fee
6-3-4: Term Of License
6-3-5: Transfer Registration And Plate; Fee
6-3-6: Report Loss Of License Plate; Duplicate License Fee
6-3-7: Disposition Of Revenues
6-3-8: Operating Regulations And Restrictions
6-3-9: Rental Agencies
6-3-10: Inspection Of Bicycles
6-3-11: Removal Of Serial Number Or License Plate
6-3-12: Use Of Bicycle Without Consent Of Owner
6-3-13: Acquiring Bicycle With Missing Serial Number
6-3-14: Bicycle Dealers Report To Police Chief
6-3-15: Enforcement; License Revocation Or Suspension
6-3-16: Penalty
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
For the purpose of promoting public welfare and safety, and for the prevention
of theft of bicycles, the regulations and restrictions hereinafter set forth
are hereby enacted governing the ownership and operation of bicycles in the
village. (1970 Code § 27.01)
6-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
From and after the effective date hereof, no person shall operate upon any
public street, alley or sidewalk within the village, any bicycle owned by a
resident of the village unless:
A.   The ownership of the bicycle has been registered as hereinafter provided.
B.   A license for the operation of the bicycle has been obtained as
hereinafter provided.
C.   The license plate is attached to the bicycle as hereinafter provided.
D.   The mechanical condition of the bicycle is such that it can be safely
operated.
E.   The bicycle is equipped as hereinafter provided. (1970 Code § 27.02)
6-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE; FEE:
A.   Application:
1.   Application for registration and license for each bicycle shall be made by
the owner in writing, in duplicate, upon blank forms furnished by the village
clerk.
2.   Such application shall be signed by the owner, and if the owner is a
person under eighteen (18) years of age, the signature shall be witnessed by a
parent of the owner, or if no parent is living, then by the legal guardian of
the owner. The application shall state the full name and address of the owner
of the bicycle, the name of the manufacturer, the serial number of the frame
thereof, the approximate date when the owner obtained title thereto, and if not
new when obtained, the name and address of the person from whom it was
obtained.
B.   Examination Of Bicycle:
1.   Such application shall be presented to the chief of police at the police
station of the village. The bicycle to be registered and licensed shall be
brought to the police station at the time of presenting the application for the
purpose of examination by the chief of police.
2.   The chief of police shall examine the bicycle, and if he finds the
mechanical condition thereof such that it can be safely operated, and that it
is equipped with reflectors as herein provided, and further finds that the
statements made in the application are true, he shall mark the application and
duplicate "approved", attach his signature, and return the same to the
applicant. (1970 Code § 27.03)
C.   Filing Application; Fee: The applicant shall thereupon file the
application with the village clerk and pay to the clerk a license fee as set
out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees". (Ord., 10-27-1975; amd.
2009 Code)
D.   Issuance Of License: The village clerk shall, upon receiving such
application and license fee, issue to the owner of the bicycle a registration
card which shall contain the name and address of the owner and the description
of the bicycle contained in the application. The applicant shall affix his
signature to the registration card when issued in the presence of the village
clerk; said clerk shall, with said certificate, also issue to the owner a
license plate which shall contain the words "Lake Bluff Bicycle License", and
the number of the license. The registration card and the license plate shall
have the same number. The license plate shall be attached to the bicycle on the
front thereof immediately below the steering bar or wheel.
E.   Endorsement; Keep On File: After the issuance of the registration card and
license plate, the village clerk shall endorse upon the application and
duplicate the date of the issuance and the number thereof. The original
application shall be kept on file in the office of the village clerk, and the
duplicate thereof shall be delivered to the chief of police, which shall be
kept on file in his office. (1970 Code § 27.03)
6-3-4: TERM OF LICENSE:
The license so issued shall be effective so long as the applicant shall
continue to be the owner of the bicycle. (1970 Code § 27.04)
6-3-5: TRANSFER REGISTRATION AND PLATE; FEE:
When any bicycle which has been registered and licensed, as herein provided, is
sold, or is otherwise disposed of or destroyed, the licensee shall immediately
surrender to the chief of police the registration card and the license plate
issued therefor, with the name and address of the new owner, if any, written on
the back of the registration card, and the chief of police shall immediately
make proper endorsement thereof on his records, and thereupon deliver the card
and plate to the village clerk, who shall immediately make proper endorsements
on his records and retain the card and plate. Upon the sale or other transfer
of a licensed bicycle, the licensee may, upon proper application, have the said
plate assigned to another bicycle owned by the applicant and shall pay to the
village clerk a transfer fee in the amount as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees". (1970 Code § 27.05;
amd. Ord., 10-27-1975; 2009 Code)
6-3-6: REPORT LOSS OF LICENSE PLATE; DUPLICATE LICENSE FEE:
A.   Issue Duplicate License; Fee: The licensee shall report immediately to the
chief of police the loss or destruction of the license plate of the licensee,
and the circumstances surrounding the loss or destruction thereof. With the
approval of the chief of police, the village clerk shall issue a duplicate
license upon payment to the village clerk by the licensee of a fee as set out
in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "license fees". (1970 Code § 27.06;
amd. Ord., 10-27-1975; 2009 Code)
B.   Denial Of Duplicate License Plate: If the chief of police shall not
approve the issuance of a duplicate license plate, the licensee shall be
required to make a new application for registration and license, and attach to
such application the existing registration card or satisfactory account for the
inability to do so. (1970 Code § 27.06)
6-3-7: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
The village clerk shall pay over to the village treasurer the license fees
received. The fees shall be used for the purpose of improving, paving,
repairing or maintaining the streets and other public roadways within the
village; provided, that the actual cost in connection with the issuance of such
licenses and the collection of the fees may be deducted from the total amount
collected as provided by statute. (1970 Code § 27.17)
6-3-8: OPERATING REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
Every person operating a bicycle upon any street, alley or sidewalk in the
village shall obey strictly the following regulations and restrictions
pertaining thereto:
A.   Riding In Double Or Single File: When more than two (2) persons in a group
are operating bicycles on a roadway, they shall ride in double file or in
single file.
B.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person operating a bicycle shall cling to or
attach himself or herself or the bicycle to any other moving vehicle.
C.   Emerging From Alleys, Driveways And Garages: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway, garage or private sidewalk shall stop the
bicycle immediately prior to driving onto or across a public sidewalk, or onto
or across a public sidewalk line projected across an alley, and shall exercise
extreme care in these cases.
D.   Extra Passenger: No person operating a bicycle shall carry another person
on the same bicycle. This restriction shall not apply to tandem bicycles which
are built for two (2) riders.
E.   Intoxication; Drug Use; Physical Inability: No person shall operate a
bicycle while under the influence of liquor or drugs or while physically or
mentally unfit to safely operate the same. (1970 Code § 27.07)
F.   Lights And Reflectors: No bicycle shall be operated between the hours of
sunset and sunrise without having securely attached one white lamp on the
front, and a red reflector on the rear thereof, each of which shall be not less
than one inch (1") in diameter. Such lighted lamp and reflector shall be
clearly visible under normal atmospheric conditions for a distance of at least
two hundred feet (200') ahead and to the rear respectively. No other lights
shall be used on a bicycle; except, that a red light similarly visible may be
substituted for a red reflector on the rear of any bicycle. The above mentioned
white front headlamp, and red rear lamp when provided, shall be lit and
illuminated at all times when riding between the hours of sunset and sunrise.
(Ord., 1-12-1971)
G.   Mechanical Condition: No person shall operate a bicycle which is not in
such mechanical condition that the same can be safely operated.
H.   Operating On Sidewalks: Bicycles may be operated on sidewalks in public
parks and in the residence district, but in single file only. Under all
circumstances, the rider shall yield the right of way to pedestrians using the
sidewalk, and due and proper care shall at all times be exercised by the rider
for the pedestrians. When approaching a pedestrian on the sidewalk, the speed
of the bicycle shall be reduced to a speed which is no greater than necessary
to continue the operation of the bicycle without the rider dismounting, and
shall not be increased until the pedestrian has been passed.
I.   Parking Bicycles: Bicycles, when parked in the business district, shall be
parked in zones, parking racks, or other places officially designated for that
purpose. Bicycles shall not, at any time, in any place, be indiscriminately
parked by anyone along buildings in such a manner as to interfere with
pedestrians, or along roadways where they may interfere with traffic, or with
persons getting into or out of motor vehicles. No person shall move or in any
manner interfere with any bicycle properly parked, nor shall any person
interfere or in any manner hinder any person from properly parking a bicycle;
except, that a member of the police department or fire department may move, or
in proper cases prevent the parking of the bicycle, when, in the judgment of
the police officer or firefighter, his action is necessary in order to properly
safeguard persons or property.
J.   Keeping To Right: All bicycles, when operated on roadways, shall be kept
to the right and shall be operated as near as practicable to the right hand
edge of the roadway.
K.   Signaling Device: Each bicycle shall be equipped with a signaling device,
in good working order and audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') when
sounded.
L.   Speed: No bicycle shall be operated at any time faster than is reasonable
or proper, and every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the
safety of the rider and of other persons and property.
M.   Traffic Regulations: Every person operating a bicycle shall strictly
observe all traffic signs and signals and all other traffic rules and
regulations applicable thereto, and shall obey the orders and directions of
every officer of the village authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
N.   Trick Riding: No person shall operate a bicycle in any manner except
through the use of both hands upon the handlebar thereof or otherwise to
indulge in any kind of trick or unsafe riding.
O.   Method Of Turning; Signals: The operator of a bicycle on a roadway, when
making a right turn, shall follow the right hand edge of the roadway, and the
operator of a bicycle on a roadway when making a left turn, shall approach the
point of turning in the traffic lane nearest the center of the roadway and
shall not cut the left hand corner. No operator of a bicycle shall suddenly
start, slow down, stop or attempt to turn without first giving the standard
signal required by state law for the operation of motor vehicles under the same
circumstances.
P.   Following Firetruck; Operation Near Fires: No person operating a bicycle
within the village shall follow or attempt to follow any firetruck, nor shall
any person operate a bicycle within one block of a fire which is being
extinguished by the fire department.
Q.   Compliance With State Traffic Laws: Every person operating a bicycle upon
a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of the act of the legislature of
the state of Illinois, entitled "an act in relation to the regulation of
traffic", approved July 9, 1939, and all amendments thereto 1 , insofar as the
provisions of said act by their nature can have application to the operation of
a bicycle, except as otherwise provided herein.
R.   The riding of bicycles shall be prohibited on the following roadways in
the Village:
1.   Sheridan Road throughout the Village;
2.   West Scranton Avenue from Sheridan Road west to Waukegan Road;
3.   Green Bay Road from Signe Court south to the Village’s southern limit.
(1970 Code § 27.07; amd. Ord. 98-3, 1-26-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
6-3-9: RENTAL AGENCIES:
Bicycles offered for rent by a rental agency shall be equipped by the rental
agency as required by this chapter and shall be kept in good and safe working
condition. Rental agencies shall comply, in all respects, with the provisions
of this chapter and shall be responsible for the condition of the bicycles they
rent. The chief of police shall make periodical inspections of rental agencies
to ascertain that they are complying with the provisions of this chapter. (1970
Code § 27.08)
6-3-10: INSPECTION OF BICYCLES:
Each member of the police department is hereby authorized to inspect any
bicycle, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of making a checkup of the
license plate, license number, and serial number for the purpose of determining
the mechanical condition of the bicycle. No person shall in any manner
interfere with or hinder the making of such inspection. (1970 Code § 27.09)
6-3-11: REMOVAL OF SERIAL NUMBER OR LICENSE PLATE:
It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully or maliciously to remove, destroy,
mutilate, or alter the serial number of any bicycle licensed pursuant to this
chapter or to remove, destroy, mutilate or alter any license plate or
registration card during the time in which the license plate or registration
card is in force. The chief of police is hereby authorized to stamp numbers on
the frame of a bicycle in a distinguishable manner, for identification
purposes, upon which no serial number can be found, or upon which the serial
number is illegible or insufficient for identification purposes. (1970 Code §
27.10)
6-3-12: USE OF BICYCLE WITHOUT CONSENT OF OWNER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate any bicycle within the
village without the consent of the owner. (1970 Code § 27.11)
6-3-13: ACQUIRING BICYCLE WITH MISSING SERIAL NUMBER:
It shall be unlawful for any person residing in the village, or any dealer in
bicycles operating in the village, to purchase, receive in trade, or otherwise
acquire any bicycle from which the serial number on the frame has been removed,
destroyed, mutilated or altered, without first reporting the same to the chief
of police. (1970 Code § 27.12)
6-3-14: BICYCLE DEALERS REPORT TO POLICE CHIEF:
Every person engaged in the business of selling, buying or trading new or used
bicycles within the village is hereby required to make a written report to the
chief of police, at the end of each month, or more often if requested by said
chief of police; such report shall contain the following information:
A.   The name and address of all persons to whom and from whom a bicycle was
sold, purchased or traded during the period covered by the report, not
including, however, purchase of new bicycles from regularly established jobbers
or wholesalers.
B.   A description of the bicycle involved in each such transaction consisting
of the name of the manufacturer, the serial number on the frame, and the
license number of the bicycle, if the bicycle has been registered and a license
issued to the owner by the village.
C.   Such additional information as the chief of police may require. (1970 Code
§ 27.13)
6-3-15: ENFORCEMENT; LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
The chief of police is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The chief of police is hereby authorized and
empowered to suspend, for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or to revoke
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter for the violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter and to impound for a period of not to
exceed thirty (30) days any unregistered or improperly registered bicycle, or
the bicycle of any person with which a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter has been committed. The action of the chief of police in
suspending or revoking any license or revoking or impounding any bicycle, as
provided in this section, shall be conclusive and final. The suspension or
revocation of a license or the impounding of a bicycle shall not preclude the
prosecution of the offender for the violation of this chapter and the
infliction of any other penalty provided herein. (1970 Code § 27.14)
6-3-16: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction, punished by a fine of not more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. (1970 Code § 27.15; amd. 2009
Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Displaying Vehicle Or Merchandise For Sale
6-4-2: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
6-4-3: Lake Bluff Train Station Parking Lot
6-4-4: Mawman Avenue Resident Parking Lot
6-4-5: General Parking Lot Regulations; Penalty
6-4-6: Temporary Parking Regulations
6-4-1: DISPLAYING VEHICLE OR MERCHANDISE FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (1970 Code § 25.49)
6-4-2: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
A.   Parking Prohibited: It is unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates or decals issued pursuant to the Illinois motor
vehicle code to a handicapped person, as defined in the Illinois motor vehicle
code, in any parking place, including any private or public off street parking
facility specifically reserved for handicapped or disabled persons by the
posting of an official sign. (Ord. 87-28, 8-10-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of subsection
A of this section shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) in addition to
any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any such motor
vehicle. The fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) may be paid without
prosecution in accordance with the provisions of subsection
6-1-4B of this title, as amended; except, that the amount of the fine shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00), and no notices need be sent for failure to pay
such fine before action is taken for further prosecution. (Ord. 96-21, 8-26-
1996)
6-4-3: LAKE BLUFF TRAIN STATION PARKING LOT:
A.   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle
within the Train Station Parking Lot, being the public parking lot adjacent to
the Lake Bluff Train Station located at 600 Sheridan Road, except as provided
herein.
B.   Classes of Permits Established. The following classifications of parking
permits for the Train Station parking lot are hereby established. The fee
payable to obtain each permit shall be as set out in Section
1-12-3, under the category "Permit Fees," and shall be paid in advance of
parking.
   1.   Daytime Parking Permit. A daytime parking permit may be issued on an
annual or daily basis.
   2.   Overnight Parking Permit. An overnight parking permit may be issued on
an annual or daily basis.
   3.   Central Business District (CBD) Merchant Parking Permit. A CBD merchant
parking permit may be issued on an annual basis to the owner, operator, or
employee of any business with physical offices or operations within the
Village's Central Business District as defined by the Village's Zoning Map. A
CBD merchant parking permit may be lawfully displayed and used by any owner,
operator, or employee of the same business, provided that the Village
Administrator or their designee has first been given and accepted notice of
each person and vehicle utilizing the permit in a form determined by the
Village Administrator.
C.   Central Business District (CBD) Merchant Parking Spaces. All spaces
designated for "Central Business District merchant parking only" within the
Train Station parking lot may be used for the parking of vehicles as follows:
   1.   Except between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) a.m. and six o'clock
(6:00) a.m. daily, only by the holders of CBD merchant parking permits.
   2.   Between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) a.m. and six o'clock (6:00)
a.m. daily, no parking of any vehicles is permitted.
D.   Overnight Parking Spaces. All spaces designated for "overnight parking
only" within the Train Station parking lot may be used for the parking of
vehicles as follows:
   1.   Between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) a.m. and ten o'clock (10:00)
a.m., Monday through Friday, only by the holders of:
      a.   Daytime parking permits; and
      b.   CBD merchant parking permits.
   2.   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and three o'clock (3:00) a.m., Monday
through Friday, by any vehicle.
   3.   Between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and three o’clock (3:00)
a.m., Saturday and Sunday, by any vehicle.
   4.   Between the hours of three o’clock (3:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00)
a.m. every day, only by the holders of overnight parking permits.
E.   All Other Spaces (Daytime Spaces). All parking spaces not otherwise marked
or restricted for specific purposes within the Train Station parking lot may be
used for the parking of vehicles as follows:
   1.   Between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and ten o’clock (10:00)
a.m., Monday through Friday, only by the holders of:
      a.   Daytime parking permits; and
      b.   CBD merchant parking permits.
   2.   Between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) a.m. and three o’clock (3:00)
a.m., Monday through Friday, by any vehicle.
   3.   Between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and three o’clock (3:00)
a.m., Saturday and Sunday, by any vehicle.
   4.   Between the hours of three o’clock (3:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00)
a.m. every day, no parking of any vehicles is permitted. (amd. 2009 Code) (Ord.
86-2, 2-24-1986, eff. 4-1-1986; amd. Ord. 88-3, 2-8-1988; Ord. 88-11, 3-28-88;
Ord. 96-21, 8-26-1996; Ord. 97-9, 4-24-1997, eff. 5-1-1997; (Ord. 2014-21, 10-
27-2014; Ord. 2015-3, 3-23-2015; Ord. 2020-8, 5-11-2020; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-
2022; Ord. 2022-35, 11-28-2022)
6-4-4: MAWMAN AVENUE RESIDENT PARKING LOT:
A.   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle
within the Mawman Avenue Resident Parking Lot, being located generally at the
northeast corner of Scranton Avenue and Mawman Avenue, except the holders of
parking permits in the manner provided herein.
B.   Classes of Permits Established. The following classifications of parking
permits for the Mawman Avenue Resident Parking Lot are hereby established. The
fee payable to obtain each permit shall be as set out in Section
1-12-3, under the category "Permit Fees," and shall be paid in advance of
parking.
   1.   Daytime Parking Permit. A daytime parking permit may be issued on an
annual basis only to residents of the Village for a vehicle bearing a valid
motor vehicle license pursuant to Section
6-2-3. The holder of a daytime parking permit may park in the Mawman Avenue
Resident Parking Lot between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) a.m. and three
o’clock (3:00) a.m. daily.
   2.   Overnight Parking Permit. An overnight parking permit may be issued on
an annual basis only to residents of the Village for a vehicle bearing a valid
motor vehicle license pursuant to Section
6-2-3. The holder of an overnight parking permit may park in the Mawman Avenue
Resident Parking Lot at any time. (amd. 2009 Code) (Ord. 86-3, 2-24-1986, eff.
4-1-1986; Ord. 88-12, 3-28-1988; Ord. 97-9, 4-24-1997, eff. 5-1-1997; Ord.
2014-21, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2020-8, 5-11-2020; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022; Ord.
2022-35, 11-28-2022)
6-4-5:  GENERAL PARKING LOT REGULATIONS; PENALTY:
The following regulations apply to the use of all Village off-street parking
lots, for the parking of motor vehicles including, without limitation, the use
of the Train Station Parking Lot (Section
6-4-3) and the Mawman Avenue Resident Parking Lot (Section
6-4-4).
A.   Parking Holidays. Any parking space that is reserved for a paid permit
established by this Chapter may be utilized without a permit on the following
holidays: January 1 (New Year's Day); the fourth Monday in May (Memorial Day);
July 4 (Independence Day); the first Monday in September (Labor Day); the
fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiving Day); December 25 (Christmas Day);
and December 31 (New Year's Eve). The holiday shall start at 12:01 a.m. on the
applicable holiday and extend until 2:59 a.m. on the day following the holiday.
B.   Annual Permits.
   1.   Form of Application. An application for an annual parking permit shall
be made in the form and number, and including such information, as determined
by the Village Administrator.
   2.   Expiration of Permits. Every annual permit established herein shall
expire on May 1 annually. Starting on June 1, the initial purchase fee shall be
prorated monthly, such that the fee is reduced by 1/12th on the first day of
each month.
   3.   Location of Annual Permit Sticker. The Village Administrator or his or
her designee shall issue a sticker or decal to the purchaser of an annual
parking permit at the time of purchase. Every effort should be made to affix
the sticker or decal to the lower left hand corner of the front windshield.
Stickers or decals shall not be obstructed from view from the exterior of the
vehicle.
   4.   Transfer. Except as may be provided otherwise, a permit is valid for
only a single vehicle and a single owner. A permit may be transferred to a
different vehicle owned by the same owner upon the owner's sale of the vehicle
for which the permit was issued, but only upon paying the transfer fee set out
in Section
1-12-3, under the category "Permit Fees."
   5.   Refunds. The Village Administrator may issue a partial refund upon
surrender of the sticker or decal. The refund shall be in the amount paid for
the sticker, less a reduction of 1/12th for each month elapsed, in part or in
full, since the purchase date. No refunds shall be given for stickers or decals
on or after February 1 of each year.
C.   Conduct Within Parking Lots.
   1.   Parking Within Designated Parking Space Lines: When the Village shall
cause lines or marks to be placed in any parking area designating individual
parking spaces, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to be
parked or placed any such motor vehicle in such parking area except within the
lines so designated or so as to encroach upon an adjacent designated space.
   2.   "No Parking" Areas. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
place any motor vehicle in any part of such parking area marked and indicated
by lettering "No Parking" or otherwise prohibited parking.
   3.   Backing Into Parking Spaces. It shall be unlawful for any person to
back into any parking space.
   4.   Following Proper Direction Of Travel: When signs are erected giving
notice thereof, or when lines or markings have been placed upon the pavement or
parking lot surface indicating the direction of travel to be followed, it shall
be unlawful for any person (except when emerging from a marked parking space)
to operate a motor vehicle in any direction other than that indicated by such
lines, markings, or signs, or to disregard the instructions of any such signs
with respect to ingress or egress to such areas, lots, tracts, or parcels of
land.
   5.   Obstructing Pedestrian Areas: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park upon, block or otherwise obstruct for any period of time any pedestrian
areas adjacent to a parking lot or designated for pedestrian access or egress.
   6.   Duty To Lock Vehicles; Nonliability Of Village: It shall be and is
hereby declared to be the duty of any person who shall park or permit the
parking of any motor vehicle in any such parking area to lock and secure the
said motor vehicle for the prevention of theft of the vehicle or its contents,
and the village shall not be liable in the maintenance of such parking area to
any person for loss or damage to any motor vehicle or contents of any motor
vehicle placed in said parking area, nor for the injury to persons or property
arising from the use and maintenance of any such parking area.
   7.   Unattended Vehicles. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Chapter, and even with a valid permit, it shall be unlawful for a person to
permit a vehicle to remain unmoved for a period of seven days or longer without
the giving of prior notice accepted by the Police Department.
D.   Temporary Parking Regulations. The Village Administrator, upon determining
that temporary parking regulations are necessary to address an emergency or
other special condition or event, is authorized to make and enforce parking
regulations that temporarily supersede the permanent parking regulations in
this chapter. Such temporary traffic regulations may be in effect only during
the period of the emergency or special condition or event, as determined by the
Village Administrator, but in no event longer than ninety (90) days without
approval by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees. The Village
Administrator or his designee must install and maintain appropriate signage at
the locations affected by the temporary traffic regulations advising motorists
of those regulations.
E.   Removal and Impoundment of Vehicles (Towing). The Chief of Police or their
designee is authorized to immediately and without prior notice tow away, or
cause to be towed away, any vehicle in a Village parking lot where the vehicle
meets any of the following conditions:
   1.   The vehicle is in such a state of disrepair that it is incapable of
being driven or constitutes a hazard to the public.
   2.   The vehicle has been unmoved for a period of seven days without the
giving of prior notice accepted by the Police Department.
   3.   The vehicle occupies more than one parking space or is otherwise parked
in a manner that impairs the safety of motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, or
the use of the parking lot by other patrons.
   4.   The vehicle is unlawfully occupying a space designated for use by
persons with disabilities pursuant to Section
6-4-2.
   5.   The vehicle does not bear valid registration plates, except that
expired or non-renewed registration plates are not cause to tow unless at least
one month has elapsed since the date of expiration.
   6.   The vehicle is subject to impoundment pursuant to any other section of
this Municipal Code or statute.
F.   Violations.
   1.   General Penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount of not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each
day that any violation exists or continues shall be deemed a separate offense
for which a separate fine may be levied.
   2.   Prima Facie Responsibility: Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation
of any provision of this Chapter, the person in whose name the vehicle is
registered with the Secretary of State of Illinois shall be prima facie
responsible for the violation and subject to the penalty therefor.
   3.   Additional Revocation of Permit. In addition to any other remedy
provided herein, a person who fails to pay a violation due within five days
after written notice is transmitted by mail or otherwise, the Village
Administrator may, in addition to any other remedy provided herein, revoke all
annual permits held by the violator, and no refunds shall be made therefor.
   4.   Additional Payment of Towing and Storage Fees. Any towing and storage
fees for a vehicle impounded pursuant to this Chapter shall be separate from,
and in addition to, any fine or penalty imposed for the parking violation.
   5.   Payment Of Fine; Notice: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this Chapter, except for parking in a handicapped space, and who removes his or
her vehicle before the same is impounded, may pay a fine, without prosecution,
in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Such remittance must be
accompanied by a signed plea of guilty and waiver of hearing, and be made
within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of notice of the violation or after
such notice is placed on the vehicle. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022; amd. Ord.
2022-35, 11-28-2022)
6-4-6: TEMPORARY PARKING REGULATIONS:
The village administrator, upon determining that temporary parking regulations
are necessary to address an emergency or other special condition or event, is
authorized to make and enforce parking regulations that temporarily supersede
the permanent parking regulations in this chapter. Such temporary traffic
regulations may be in effect only during the period of the emergency or special
condition or event, as determined by the village administrator, but in no event
longer than ninety (90) days without approval by resolution of the village
board of trustees. The village administrator or his designee must install and
maintain appropriate signage at the locations affected by the temporary traffic
regulations advising motorists of those regulations. (Ord. 2009-21, 9-14-2009)
CHAPTER 5
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Through Streets
6-5-2: Stop Streets
6-5-3: No Parking Areas
6-5-4: Limited Parking Areas
6-5-5: Speed Limits
6-5-6: One-Way Streets
6-5-7: School Bus Loading Zones
6-5-8: School Zones; No Stopping, Signs Posted
6-5-9: Weight Limits
6-5-10: Intersection Closures And Traffic Restrictions
6-5-11: Yield Right-Of-Way Streets
6-5-12: Use Of Certain Streets By Bicycles And Pedestrians
6-5-1: THROUGH STREETS:
Every driver of a vehicle traversing any street intersecting with any street
designated as a through street shall stop such vehicle before entering upon
such through street unless a go signal is given at such intersection by a
traffic officer or a traffic sign. (1988 Code § 9-4-10)
A.   North Terrace Subdivision Residential Streets: At any time, it shall be
unlawful to utilize Garfield Avenue, West Washington Avenue, Pine Court,
Hancock Avenue, Lincoln Avenue, Rockland Avenue, Mawman Avenue, or Main Street,
or any combination thereof, as through streets to travel from West Scranton
Avenue to Green Bay Road or from Green Bay Road to West Scranton Avenue. (Ord.
97-2, 1-13-1997)
B.   Through Streets Designated: The following streets and parts of streets are
designated as through streets:
      Green Bay Road, except where the same intersects with State Route 176,
throughout its length in the Village.
      Sheridan Road, throughout its length in the Village.
      State Route 176, throughout its length in the Village. (1988 Code § 9-4-
10)
6-5-2: STOP STREETS:
A.   Two-Way Stop Intersections: The following intersections are designated as
two-way stop intersections:
Right-Of-Way Street Stop Street Source
Right-Of-Way Street Stop Street               Source
Atkinson Avenue     Sanctuary Lane            Ord. 99-24; amd. 2009 Code
                    southwestbound
Carriage Park Lane  Center access aisle from  Ord. 2017-15
                    Target southbound
Carriage Park Lane  Westernmost access aisle  Ord. 2017-15
                    from Target southbound
Carriage Park Lane/ Easternmost access aisle  Ord. 2017-15
Albrecht Drive      from Target southbound
East North Avenue   Walnut Avenue             Ord. 2006-12; amd. 2009
                                              Code
Evanston Avenue     Ravine Avenue             Ord. 78-16
                    Sylvan Lane               Ord. 78-16
Sanctuary Lane      Atkinson Avenue westbound Ord. 99-24; amd. 2009 Code
 
B.   Three-Way Stop Intersections: The following intersections are designated
as three-way stop intersections:
Intersection Source
Intersection                                         Source
Atkinson Avenue at Adelphia Avenue                   Ord. 99-24
Atkinson Avenue at Birch Avenue                      Ord. 99-24
Atkinson Avenue (westbound) at Sanctuary Lane        Ord. 99-24; amd. 2009 Code
Bath & Tennis Club Road/Wimbledon Court/Wimbledon    Ord. 92-17
Road
East Center Avenue (southeastbound) at West Scranton Ord. 2002-3
Avenue
Oak Terrace and East Witchwood Lane                  1988 Code § 9-6-5
Rockland Avenue at West Washington Avenue            Ord. 91-13; amd. 2009 Code
Sanctuary Lane (southwestbound) at Atkinson Avenue   Ord. 99-24; amd. 2009 Code
West Center Avenue at Lincoln Avenue                 Ord. 2008-27
 
C.   Four-Way Stop Intersections: The following intersections are designated as
four-way stop intersections:
Intersection Source
Intersection                                                  Source
East Prospect Avenue at Moffett Road                          Ord. 99-7
East Scranton Avenue and Walnut Avenue and East Center Avenue Ord. 2006-26
East Washington Avenue (eastbound and westbound) at Oak       Ord. 2002-20
Avenue
Evanston Avenue and East Prospect Avenue                      1988 Code § 9-6-4
Oak Avenue (northbound and southbound) at East Washington     Ord. 2002-20
Avenue
Ravine Avenue at Moffett Road                                 Ord. 2006-14
West Washington Avenue and Lincoln Avenue                     Ord. 97-29A
 
6-5-3: NO PARKING AREAS:
It shall be unlawful, at any time, to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
places designated as no parking areas, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic signal. The places designated as no parking areas shall be as follows:
Street Side(s) Location Source
Street     Side(s)    Location      Source
Albrecht                            1988 Code § 9-6-4
Drive
Arbor                               1988 Code § 9-6-4
Court
Arbor                               1988 Code § 9-6-4
Drive
Cambridge                           1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Lane
Carriage                            1988 Code § 9-6-4
Lane
                      Cul-de-sac at
                      the eastern   1988 Code § 9-6-4
                      terminus
                      From Evanston
                      Avenue
                      westward to
                      State Route
                      176 extended
                      easterly at
                      their
East                  intersection  1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2014-
Center                beneath the   21
Avenue                right of way
                      line of the
                      Union Pacific
                      railway,
                      unless
                      otherwise
                      posted to the
                      contrary
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
           North      Avenue and 20 Ord. 2009-21
                      feet west of
                      the westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of Oak
                      Avenue and
                      the 75 feet
           North      west of the   Ord. 2009-21
                      easterly
                      property line
                      of 40 East
                      Center Avenue
                      (village
                      hall)
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue and
           South      the westerly  Ord. 2009-21
                      property line
                      of 45 East
                      Center Avenue
                      (public
                      safety
                      building)
                      From the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of State
                      Route 42
East North            (Sheridan     1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Avenue                Road) to the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
                      Between the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Sheridan Road
           North      and the       Ord. 2008-4; amd. 2009 Code
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
                      From 40 feet
                      west of the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
           South      Walnut Avenue Ord. 2008-4; amd. 2009 Code
                      to the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Walnut Avenue
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right of way
East                  line of
Prospect   South      Moffett Road  1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Avenue                and the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Gurney Avenue
East                  Between
Scranton   North      Moffett Road  1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Avenue                and Sunrise
                      Avenue
                      From the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Sheridan Road
                      to the
                      current
                      drive-through
                      lane located
                      immediately
                      east of 2
                      East
           North      Scranton,     Ord. 2009-21
                      this portion
                      of East
                      Scranton
                      Avenue to be
                      used only for
                      loading as
                      designated
                      with
                      appropriate
                      signs by the
                      village
                      administrator
                      From Evanston
           South      Avenue to     1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
                      Glen Avenue
East                  From Sheridan
Sheridan   North      Road to       1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Place                 Evanston
                      Avenue
                      From the
                      centerline of
                      fractional
                      section 9,
                      township 44
                      North, range
                      12, East of
                      the 3rd
                      principal
                      meridian, in
                      Lake Bluff,
East                  Lake County,
Sheridan              Illinois, to
Road                  the southerly 1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
(formerly             limits of
Route 42)             said Sheridan
                      Road in Lake
                      Bluff, said
                      southerly
                      limits being
                      the boundary
                      line between
                      the village
                      of Lake Bluff
                      and the city
                      of Lake
                      Forest
East
Skokie
nature                              Ord. 95-28
preserve
and
pathway:
                      Between West
                      Sheridan
Maclaren              Place and     Ord. 95-28
Lane                  West
                      Witchwood
                      Lane
                      Between the
                      eastern
                      boundary of
Park Lane             the Sunset    Ord. 95-28
                      Terrace right
                      of way and
                      Maclaren Lane
                      Between West
                      Hawthorne
Sunset                Court and     Ord. 95-28
Terrace               West
                      Witchwood
                      Lane
                      Between the
                      eastern
West                  boundary of
Hawthorne             the Sunset    Ord. 95-28
Court                 Terrace right
                      of way and
                      Maclaren Lane
                      Between the
                      eastern
West                  boundary of
Sheridan              the Sunset    Ord. 95-28
Place                 Terrace right
                      of way and
                      Maclaren Lane
                      Between the
                      eastern
West                  boundary of
Witchwood             the Sunset    Ord. 95-28
Lane                  Terrace right
                      of way and
                      Maclaren Lane
                      Between the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of
East                  Sheridan Road
Washington North      and the       Ord. 2008-4; amd. 2009 Code
Avenue                westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
                      Along and
                      upon the
                      south side of
                      from one
                      hundred
                      (100') feet
East                  east of the
Woodland              easterly      Ord. 2020-19, 10-26-2020
Avenue                right-of- way
                      line of
                      Sheridan Road
                      to the
                      easterly
                      right-of-way
                      line of
                      Sheridan Road
                      Between East
Evanston              North Avenue
Avenue                and East      1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
                      Sheridan
                      Place
Forest                              1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Cove Road
Garfield                            1988 Code § 9-6-4
Avenue
                      From the EJ&E
                      Railroad
Green Bay             tracks to the 1988 Code § 9-6-4
Road                  southerly
                      limits of the
                      village
                      From its
                      intersection
                      with Rockland
                      Road
                      (formerly
                      State Route
                      176), north   1988 Code § 9-6-4
                      to the right-
                      of-way of the
                      Elgin Joliet
                      and Eastern
                      Railway
                      Company
Lakeland                            1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Drive
                      From its
                      intersection
                      with Sheridan
                      Road to the
                      southerly
                      limits of
                      McKinley
McKinley              Road, said
Road                  southerly     1988 Code § 9-6-4
                      limits being
                      the boundary
                      line between
                      the Village
                      of Lake Bluff
                      and the City
                      of Lake
                      Forest
                      Between
                      Ravine Avenue
                      and a point
Moffett               125 feet
Road                  north of the  1988 Code § 9-6-4
                      northerly
                      right-of- way
                      line of North
                      Avenue
Mountain                            Ord. 2019-5
Avenue
North
Shore                               1988 Code § 9-6-4
Drive
                      Between East
Oak Avenue            Center Avenue 1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
                      and East
                      North Avenue
                      Between the
                      intersection
                      with Evanston
                      Avenue and 80
Ravine     South      feet west of  Ord. 2010-21
Avenue                the westerly
                      right-of-way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
                      From its
                      eastern
Rockland              terminus to
Road                  its
(formerly             intersection  1988 Code § 9-6-4
State                 with State
Route 176)            Route 43
                      (Waukegan
                      Road)
Sherwood                            1988 Code § 9-6-4
Drive
Sherwood                            1988 Code § 9-6-4
Terrace
                      On each side,
                      from the
                      southernmost
                      curb cut of
                      the first
                      driveway
                      lying north
                      of East
Simpson               Center
Avenue                Avenue, to    Ord. 2022-36
                      the
                      northernmost
                      curb cut of
                      the first
                      driveway
                      lying south
                      of East
                      Scranton
                      Avenue.
                      On the west
                      side, from
                      the northside
                      of the first
                      driveway      Ord. 2024-17
                      lying north
                      of East
                      Prospect
                      Avenue.
Sunrise
Avenue and
the east
and west
streets
connecting
therewith                           1988 Code § 9-6-4
within a
distance
of 50 feet
of the
west line
of Sunrise
Avenue
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right- of-way
                      line of
Sylvan                Moffett Road
Road       North      and the       Ord. 2009-27
                      easterly
                      right-of- way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
                      From the
                      southerly
                      right-of- way
                      line of East
Vincent    West       Sheridan      1988 Code § 9-6-4
Court                 Place
                      extended
                      south for a
                      distance of
                      360 feet
                      From East
                      North Avenue
                      to 110 feet
                      south of the
                      intersection
                      of Walnut
                      Avenue and
                      East North
                      Avenue, this
Walnut     East       portion of    Ord. 2009-21
Avenue                Walnut Avenue
                      to be used
                      only for
                      loading as
                      designated
                      with
                      appropriate
                      signs by the
                      Village
                      Administrator
                      Between East
                      Scranton
           East       Avenue and    1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
                      East North
                      Avenue
                      From East
                      North Avenue
                      to the south
                      end of the
                      Village
           West       parking lot,  Ord. 2006-29
                      located at
                      the southwest
                      corner of
                      East North
                      Avenue and
                      Walnut Avenue
                      From its
                      terminus at
                      its
                      intersection
                      with East
                      Center Avenue
                      west to Green
                      Bay Road and
                      west from
West                  Green Bay
Scranton              Road along    1988 Code § 9-6-4
Avenue                Rockland Road
                      (also known
                      as State
                      Route 176)
                      extended
                      westerly to
                      the westerly
                      right of way
                      line of State
                      Route 43
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of Pine
West                  Court
Washington            extended      1988 Code § 9-6-4; amd. 2009 Code
Avenue                north and the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of Green
                      Bay Road
                      Between the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of Green
                      Bay Road and
           South      110 feet west Ord. 2009-26
                      of the
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of Green
                      Bay Road on
                      school days
West       South      Between
Witchwood  (eastbound Maclaren Lane Ord. 95-28
Lane       lane)      and Sunset
                      Terrace
                      Between the
                      easterly
                      right of way
                      line of
Woodland              Sheridan Road
Avenue     North      and the       Ord. 2008-4
                      westerly
                      right of way
                      line of
                      Evanston
                      Avenue
 
6-5-4: LIMITED PARKING AREAS:
A.   Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on any street in the
village between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. after November 15, and before April 1 of each year or after a two inch
(2") snowfall until snow removal is completed. (Ord. 97-34, 12-8-1997)
B.   Time Limit Parking: It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in
any of the following places during the times specified, or for a longer period
of time than indicated, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic
signal:
1.   Fifteen minute parking:
a.   Generally:
East Center Avenue, in the one on street public parking space along and upon
the east side immediately north of and adjacent to the entrance drive directly
south of 38 East Center Avenue from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M.
Walnut Avenue, in the three (3) on street public parking spaces along and upon
the west side between East Scranton Avenue and the alley behind 20 East
Scranton Avenue from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
b.   Between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.:
East Scranton Avenue, in the two (2) on street public parking spaces on the
north side immediately west of Walnut Avenue.
      2   Two hour parking:
a.   Generally:
East North Avenue, south side, between the easterly right of way line of
Sheridan Road and forty feet (40') west of the westerly right of way line of
Walnut Avenue.
East North Avenue, south side, between the easterly right of way line of Walnut
Avenue and the westerly right of way line of Evanston Avenue.
East Washington Avenue, south side, between the easterly right of way line of
Sheridan Road and the westerly right of way line of Oak Avenue.
Woodland Avenue, south side, between the easterly right of way line of Sheridan
Road and the westerly right of way line of Oak Avenue.
b.   Between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (except
for the 15 minute spaces established in subsection B1b of this section):
East Center Avenue, east side, between Oak Avenue and East Scranton Avenue.
East Center Avenue, west side, between Oak Avenue and East Scranton Avenue.
East Scranton Avenue, north and south sides, immediately west of Evanston
Avenue and immediately east of Sheridan Road.
Oak Avenue, in the four (4) on street public parking spaces along and upon the
west side between East Scranton Avenue and the entrance driveway directly south
of 117 East Scranton Avenue.
Walnut Avenue, east side, between East Scranton Avenue and the alley behind 20
East Scranton Avenue. (amd. 2009 Code)
3.   Four hour parking:
a.   Between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.:
Oak Avenue, in the eight (8) public parking spaces along and upon the west side
between East Center Avenue and the private driveway access to the condominium
units located at 52 - 66 East Center Avenue.
4.   Thirty minute parking:
a.   Generally:
Oak Avenue, in the three (3) on street public parking spaces along and upon the
east side between East Scranton Avenue and the public library entrance drive
directly south of 123 East Scranton Avenue (public library).
5.   Three hour parking:
Walnut Avenue public parking lot located at the southwest corner of North
Avenue and Walnut Avenue. Except between three o’clock (3:00) A.M. and five
o’clock (5:00) A.M. when all parking is prohibited.
C.   Parking East Of Moffett Road: There is no parking on village streets east
of Moffett Road from April 1 to September 30 between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 97-34, 12-8-1997; Ord. 2006-16, 6-
12-2006; Ord. 2008-4, 1-28-2008; Ord. 2009-21, 9-14-2009; Ord. 2010-13, 6-14-
2010; Ord. 2015-3, 3-23-2015; Ord. 2020-8, 5-11-2020)
6-5-5: SPEED LIMITS:
A.   25 m.p.h. Speed Limit Established For Residential Streets. No person shall
drive a vehicle upon any public highway at a speed greater than is reasonable
and proper having regard to the traffic and the use of the way or so as to
endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any person. Unless
otherwise provided in this Chapter, if the rate of speed of any motor vehicle
through the urban district of the Village exceeds twenty (20) miles an hour, or
if the rate of speed of any such motor vehicle operated on any public highway
where the same passes through a residential district of the Village exceeds
twenty-five (25) miles an hour, or if the rate of speed of any such motor
vehicle operated on any public highway in other districts exceeds 35 m.p.h.,
such rates of speed shall be prima facie evidence that the person operating
such motor vehicle is running at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and
proper having regard to the traffic and use of the way or so as to endanger the
life or limb or injure the property of any person.
B.   Urban Streets With Speed Limits Greater Than 20 m.p.h. The following
streets are exceptions to division A. of this section and are urban streets
whose speed limits are greater than 20 m.p.h.:
1.   East Scranton Avenue between Sheridan Road and Evanston Avenue shall have
a speed limit of 20 m.p.h.
2.   Carriage Park Avenue between Waukegan Rd. to Albrecht Drive should have a
speed limit of 25 m.p.h.
3.   Albrecht Drive between Carriage Park Avenue to Waukegan Road should have a
speed limit of 25 m.p.h.
4.   North Shore Drive between Waukegan Road and Sherwood Terrace shall have a
speed limit of 25 m.p.h.
5.   Sherwood Terrace between North Shore Drive and Sherwood Drive shall have a
speed limit of 25 m.p.h.
6.   Sherwood Drive between Sherwood Terrace and Waukegan Road shall have a
speed limit of 25 m.p.h.
C.   Residential Streets With Speed Limits Less Than 25 m.p.h.
1.   Sylvan Road between Evanston Avenue to Moffett Rd. shall have a speed
limit of 15 m.p.h.
2.   Ravine Forest Drive between East Sheridan Road and Oak Terrace shall have
a speed limit of 15 m.p.h.
D.   Residential Streets With Speed Limits Greater Than 25 m.p.h.
1.   Green Bay Road between Route 176 and the Village limits shall have a speed
limit of 30 m.p.h. (Ord. 96-25, 9-9-1996; amd. Ord. 97-30, 11-24-1997)
6-5-6: ONE-WAY STREETS:
The following streets are hereby designated as one-way streets. When signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected at each intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited, vehicular traffic shall move
only in the indicated direction.
 
Street        Location         Direction Of      Source
                               Traffic
              Between Sheridan Eastbound on
East Sheridan Road and Vincent school days       Ord. 94-23
Place         Court            between 8:00 A.M.
                               and 4:00 P.M.
              Between East
Oak Avenue    Scranton Avenue  Southbound        1988 Code § 9-4-10; amd. 2009
              and East Center                    Code
              Avenue
              Between East
              Scranton Avenue  Southbound        1988 Code § 9-4-10; amd. 2009
              and East North                     Code
              Avenue
              Between Moffett
              Road and the
              residential
Sylvan Road   driveway for the Eastbound         Ord. 2009-27
              property
              commonly known
              as 335 Sylvan
              Road
              Between East
              North Avenue and
              the exit from
              the village
Walnut Avenue parking lot,     Northbound        Ord. 2006-29
              located at the
              southwest corner
              of East North
              Avenue and
              Walnut Avenue
              Between East
              Scranton Avenue  Northbound        1988 Code § 9-4-10; amd. 2009
              and East North                     Code
              Avenue
 
6-5-7: SCHOOL BUS LOADING ZONES:
A.   Between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. (on school
days), it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle, except an authorized school
bus, to stop along and upon the following streets in the village, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the directions
of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal:
 
Street              Side  Location                                 Source
                          From 334 feet east of the easterly right
East Sheridan Place South of way to 400 feet east of the easterly  Ord. 94-23
                          right of way
 
6-5-8: SCHOOL ZONES; NO STOPPING, SIGNS POSTED:
A.   No Stopping: At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to
stop in any of the following locations, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or to comply with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal:
Street Side Location Source
Street                        Side  Location                       Source
Circle Drive for the                                               Ord. 96-24
following persons:
1. Those visiting East
School, Lake Bluff Middle
School, or the school
district 65 administrative
offices
2. Those dropping off or
picking up visitors to East
School, Lake Bluff Middle
School, or the school
district 65 administrative
offices
3. Those dropping off or
picking up students attending
East School or Lake Bluff
Middle School
                                    From the easterly right of way
East Sheridan Place           South of Sheridan Road to 156 feet   Ord. 94-5
                                    east of the easterly right of
                                    way of Sheridan Road
                                    From 244 feet east of the
                                    easterly right of way of
                              South Sheridan Road to 334 feet east Ord. 94-5
                                    of the easterly right of way
                                    of Sheridan Road
                                    From 400 feet east of the
                                    easterly right of way of
                              South Sheridan Road to 464 feet east Ord. 94-5
                                    of the easterly right of way
                                    of Sheridan Road
                                    From 568 feet east of the
                                    easterly right of way of
                              South Sheridan Road to 665 feet east Ord. 94-5
                                    of the easterly right of way
                                    of Sheridan Road
                                    From 686 feet east of the
                                    easterly right of way of
                              South Sheridan Road to 746 feet east Ord. 94-5
                                    of the easterly right of way
                                    of Sheridan Road
                                    From 833 feet east of the
                              South easterly right of way of       Ord. 94-5
                                    Sheridan Road to the westerly
                                    right of way of Vincent Court
                                    From the easterly right of way
                              South of Vincent Court to 119 feet   Ord. 94-5
                                    east of the easterly right of
                                    way of Vincent Court
                                    From the easterly right of way
                              North of Evanston Avenue to 27 feet  Ord. 94-5
                                    east of the easterly right of
                                    way of Evanston Avenue
                                    From the westerly right of way
                              North of Evanston Avenue to 102 feet Ord. 94-5
                                    west of the westerly right of
                                    way of Evanston Avenue
                                    From 305 feet west of the
                                    westerly right of way of
                              North Evanston Avenue to 383 feet    Ord. 94-5
                                    west of the westerly right of
                                    way of Evanston Avenue
                                    From 499 feet west of the
                                    westerly right of way of
                              North Evanston Avenue to 565 feet    Ord. 94-5
                                    west of the westerly right of
                                    way of Evanston Avenue
                                    From 636 feet west of the
                                    westerly right of way of
                              North Evanston Avenue to 721 feet    Ord. 94-5
                                    west of the westerly right of
                                    way of Evanston Avenue
                                    From 840 feet west of the
                                    westerly right of way of
                              North Evanston Avenue to the         Ord. 94-5
                                    easterly right of way of
                                    Sheridan Road
                                    From the northerly right of
                                    way of East Sheridan Place to
Evanston Avenue               East  39 feet north of the northerly Ord. 94-5
                                    right of way of East Sheridan
                                    Place
                                    From the northerly right of
                                    way of East Sheridan Place to
                              West  40 feet north of the northerly Ord. 94-5
                                    right of way of East Sheridan
                                    Place
                                    From the southerly right of
                                    way of East Sheridan Place to
Vincent Court                 East  315 feet south of the          Ord. 96-24
                                    southerly right of way of East
                                    Sheridan Place for the
                                    following persons:
                                    1. Those visiting East School,
                                    Lake Bluff Middle School, or
                                    the School District 65
                                    administrative offices
                                    2. Those dropping off or
                                    picking up visitors to East
                                    School, Lake Bluff Middle
                                    School, or the School District
                                    65 administrative offices
                                    3. Those dropping off or
                                    picking up students attending
                                    East School or Lake Bluff
                                    Middle School
Vincent Court, with the             From the southerly right of
exception of school buses           way of East Sheridan Place to
serving students of East      West  315 feet south of the          Ord. 96-24
School                              southerly right of way of East
                                    Sheridan Place
                                    Between the westerly right of
West Washington Avenue        North way line of Green Bay Road and Ord. 2009-26
                                    the entrance driveway to the
                                    Lake Bluff Elementary School
                                    Between 30 feet easterly of
                                    the easterly limit of the exit
                              North driveway from the Lake Bluff   Ord. 2009-26
                                    Elementary School and the
                                    westerly end of West
                                    Washington Avenue
                                    Between westerly end of West
                                    Washington Avenue and a line
                                    extended southerly from the
                              South easterly end of the Lake Bluff Ord. 2009-26
                                    Elementary School exit
                                    driveway onto West Washington
                                    Avenue
 
B.   Signs Posted: The following signs are hereby authorized to be placed at
the following locations in the village:
 
Type Of Sign    Street              Side(s)       Location           Source
"Do Not Enter 8                                   West access drive
a.m. to 4 p.m.  East Sheridan Place East and west to the Lake Bluff  Ord. 94-5
School Days"                                      Junior High School
                                                  playground lot
                                                  East access drive
"Do Not Enter"  East Sheridan Place West          to the Lake Bluff  Ord. 94-5
                                                  Junior High School
                                                  playground lot
                                                  East access drive
                                                  to the parking lot
                                    West          east of the Lake   Ord. 94-5
                                                  Bluff Junior High
                                                  School
                                                  Eastern end of the
                                    West          Lake Bluff East    Ord. 94-5
                                                  Elementary School
                                                  circular driveway
                                                  East access drive
"Stop"          East Sheridan Place East          to the Lake Bluff  Ord. 94-5
                                                  Junior High School
                                                  playground lot
                                                  East access drive
                                                  to the parking lot
                                    East          east of the Lake   Ord. 94-5
                                                  Bluff Junior High
                                                  School
 
6-5-9: WEIGHT LIMITS:
A.   Specific Streets: It shall be unlawful to drive or operate any truck in
excess of the weight limits hereinafter set forth, upon the streets designated
herein, at any time:
Mawman Avenue, between West Scranton Avenue and West Blodgett Avenue, any truck
in excess of two (2) tons. Any person violating this provision shall be fined
not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than the maximum provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. Each usage of any roadway upon
which such truck traffic is prohibited shall be considered a separate offense,
whether committed on the same day or another day. (Ord. 80-6, 4-8-1980; amd.
2009 Code)
B.   Union Pacific Railway Bridge, Green Bay Road:
1.   Definitions: Definitions of any terms or words used herein shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois motor vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et seq. (Ord. 81-17, 9-8-1991)
2.   Weight Restriction: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move
on, upon or across, or for the owner or operator to cause or knowingly permit
to be driven or moved on, upon or across a certain bridge over the Union
Pacific railway right of way located on Green Bay Road in the village,
designated as bridge number 0496800 by the department of transportation of the
state of Illinois, any vehicle of any nature and description which, together
with its load, exceeds ten (10) tons in weight. (Ord. 81-17, 9-8-1981; amd.
Ord. 2014-21, 10-27-2014)
3.   Exception; Emergency Vehicles: The foregoing weight limitation shall not
apply to fire apparatus, equipment used for snow and ice removal operations,
vehicles involved in providing paramedic and rescue services, and other
vehicles owned, operated or requested by the village. Said usage is required
for emergency reasons, provided such usage is approved by the structural
engineer as an exception to his inspection report of March 1980 on said bridge
(Del Leuw, Cather And Company or Illinois department of transportation). (Ord.
81-17, 9-8-1981)
4.   Posting Of Signs: The village administrator or his authorized
representative is hereby authorized and directed to post weight limitation
signs at both approaches to said bridge crossing in accordance with the
standards for such construction.
5.   Most Restrictive Provisions Apply: Notwithstanding anything contained
herein to the contrary, whenever a more restrictive weight limitation is
imposed by any other governmental body or agency having jurisdiction over said
bridge structure, or by the owner, person or entity responsible for the
maintenance of said bridge structure, the most restrictive provisions shall
apply.
6.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this subsection
shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than the maximum
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. Each usage of said bridge
structure in violation of the weight limits established herein shall be
considered a separate offense, whether committed on the same day or another
day. (Ord. 81-17, 9-8-1981; amd. 2009 Code)
6-5-10: INTERSECTION CLOSURES AND TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS:
A.   Closure Of Intersection: Northern Avenue, at its intersection with
Illinois Route 41, shall be permanently closed to all vehicular traffic except
for emergency vehicles and equipment. (Ord. 95-05, 3-13-1995)
B.   Traffic Restrictions: All vehicular traffic, including bicycles, on or
along the streets designated as traffic restricted, except pleasure traffic of
a nonautomotive nature, and except such traffic as is necessary for maintaining
such streets when performed under the supervision of a duly authorized
representative of the village, shall be and is hereby prohibited. The chief of
police is hereby authorized to install and maintain, or cause to be installed
and maintained, at or near the intersection of such streets, such structures or
signs as he deems necessary to enforce the provisions of this subsection. (2009
Code)
6-5-11: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY STREETS:
The intersections designated as yield right of way intersections shall be
established by the village board of trustees from time to time. (2009 Code)
6-5-12: USE OF CERTAIN STREETS BY BICYCLES AND PEDESTRIANS:
A.   Riding Bicycles: The riding of bicycles shall be prohibited on those
streets in the village designated from time to time by the village board of
trustees.
B.   Use By Pedestrians: Pedestrians shall be prohibited on those streets in
the village designated from time to time by the village board of trustees.
(2009 Code)
C.   Lillian Dells Drive: The use by any person of that portion of the public
right of way extending from the intersection of North Avenue and Maple Avenue
on the west to Lake Michigan on the east and commonly known as Lillian Dells
Drive shall be subject to the following regulations:
1.   Lillian Dells Drive may be used only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset, and at no other times without the prior permission of the Village
Administrator.
2.   Motor Vehicles Prohibited. No motor vehicle of any type may be operated in
Lillian Dells Drive at any time.
3.   Exceptions. Nothing in this subsection C shall restrict the use of Lillian
Dells Drive:
a.   By any person or vehicle on behalf of or in the performance of Village
duties; or
b.   As may otherwise be authorized from time to time by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 2012-17, 8-13-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-3, 1-24-2022)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Right Of Way
6-6-2: Use Of Roadways; Soliciting Rides
6-6-3: Obey Signals
6-6-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
A.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into any
crosswalk without the exercise of due and proper care in view of the special
use made thereof by pedestrians.
B.   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while there
is in such crosswalk upon the half of the roadway upon which such vehicle is
traveling any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway until such pedestrian
shall have passed beyond the path of such vehicle, when the pedestrian shall
indicate his intention to cross.
C.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for
the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross. (1970 Code § 25.09)
6-6-2: USE OF ROADWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES:
A.   Most Direct Route: At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other
than by the most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any
place other than a crosswalk he shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
upon the roadway.
B.   Interference With Traffic: No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway
if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
C.   Soliciting Rides: It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a
roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle 1 .
D.   Pedestrians shall be prohibited on the following roadways in the Village:
1.   Sheridan Road throughout the Village;
2.   West Scranton Avenue from Sheridan Road west to Waukegan Road;
3.   Green Bay Road from Signe Court south to the Village’s southern limit.
(1970 Code § 25.10; amd. Ord. 98-3, 1-26-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 3-3-14A1 of this code.
6-6-3: OBEY SIGNALS:
At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop and
go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway, other
than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic. (1970 Code § 25.11)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
6-7-1: Clear Vision
6-7-2: Unnecessary Noise
6-7-3: Emissions
6-7-4: Projecting Loads
6-7-5: Size, Weight And Load
6-7-6: Metal Tired Vehicles
6-7-7: Equipment Required
6-7-8: Nonskid Devices Prohibited
6-7-1: CLEAR VISION:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle that is so
constructed or loaded that the driver's view of the roadway to the rear is
obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him a view of
the roadway behind him. (1970 Code § 25.34)
6-7-2: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise on the streets. (1970 Code § 25.35)
6-7-3: EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1970 Code § 25.37)
6-7-4: PROJECTING LOADS:
A.   Width:
1.   The maximum width of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed eight feet
(8') excepting loads of loose hay, straw, corn fodder, or similar farm
products, agricultural implements and threshing machines.
2.   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fender on the right
side thereof.
B.   Length:
1.   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of thirty five
feet (35') extreme overall dimension. A truck tractor and a semitrailer shall
be regarded as one vehicle for the purpose of determining length.
2.   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than two
(2) units, and no such combination of vehicles, unladen or with load, shall
exceed a total length of forty feet (40'); but such length limitation shall not
apply to vehicles operated in the daytime when transporting poles, pipes,
machinery or other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such
vehicles operated at nighttime by a public utility when engaged in emergency
repair work; but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with
sufficient lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
3.   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet (3') in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle. (1970 Code § 25.38)
6-7-5: SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD:
A.   Definitions: Definitions of any terms or words used herein shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois motor vehicle code, and weight
computations shall be computed in accordance with the Illinois motor vehicle
code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
B.   Permit Required For Overweight Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any
person or entity to drive, operate, move on, upon or across, or for the owner
to cause or knowingly permit to be driven, operated or moved on, upon or across
any street in the village, under the jurisdiction and control of the village,
any vehicle of any nature and description exceeding four (4) tons per axle, or
twenty four thousand (24,000) pounds per vehicle, when there will be two (2) or
more such movements of such vehicles in the village during any twenty four (24)
hour period, without a permit approved by the village administrator. Such
permits shall set forth the routes of travel permitted for such vehicles, the
speed limit permitted, the maximum number of vehicles permitted in any day,
week, or month, the days of the week, and times during which such vehicles may
be operated.
C.   Security Or Insurance: To ensure against injuries to the public or
property damage, the village administrator shall require the posting of a bond
or other security or insurance which he may approve in an amount of not less
than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) running in favor of the village.
D.   Covering Materials Susceptible To Spilling: Whenever such vehicles contain
any type of material susceptible to spillage, and blowing of debris or
materials therefor, either during the movement, or the loading or unloading
thereof, the village administrator may also require that the material being
transported be covered in such manner as to prevent such spillage or blowing,
or be sprinkled with water or other safe solution, or direct such other
preventative measures be implemented to minimize or eliminate such condition
from occurring.
E.   Authority To Restrict Use Of Roadways: Whenever it is determined by the
village administrator that any roadway under the jurisdiction of the village,
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is
prohibited, or the permissible weights thereon reduced, or other reasonable
regulations adhered to, the village may, by ordinance or resolution, direct the
village administrator to erect or cause the erection of signs on such roadways
for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days in any one calendar year,
restricting and regulating vehicular traffic thereon.
F.   Vehicles Excepted From Restrictions: The foregoing weight limitations
shall not apply to fire apparatus, equipment used for snow and ice removal
operations by the village or any village owned or village operated vehicle.
Upon approval of the village administrator, vehicles in excess of such weight
limits or in excess of the length limits hereinafter set forth may be allowed
on village streets subject to such terms and conditions as may be imposed by
said administrator.
G.   Vehicle Length Restriction: No vehicle in excess of fifty five feet (55')
in length shall be allowed on any roadway under the jurisdiction of the village
except for municipally owned and operated vehicles and fire apparatus equipment
used for firefighting purposes.
H.   Posting Signs: The village administrator is hereby authorized and directed
to post weight limitation signs at all entrances to village streets and
roadways affected by the terms of this section and any other ordinance or
resolution enacted pursuant hereto for the restrictions in effect from time to
time.
I.   More Restrictive Provisions Govern: Notwithstanding anything contained
herein to the contrary, whenever a more restrictive weight or length limitation
is imposed by any other governmental body or agency having jurisdiction over a
street or roadway located in the village, the more restrictive provisions of
such other governmental body or agency shall apply.
J.   Responsibility For Damage To Streets: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this section or ordinance or resolution enacted pursuant hereto
shall be responsible and liable for any and all damages to village streets and
roadways and for all costs and expenses of repair or replacement. This
liability shall not relieve any such person from any other penalty provisions
of this title that would otherwise be applicable. (Ord. 91-12, 8-26-1991)
6-7-6: METAL TIRED VEHICLES:
A.   Protecting Pavement: No tractor, traction engine or other metal tired
vehicle, weighing more than four (4) tons including the weight of the vehicle
and its load shall drive up, onto, off or over the edge of the paved roadway of
any improved street without protecting such edge by putting down solid planks
or other suitable device to prevent such vehicle from breaking off the edges of
such pavement. (1970 Code § 25.45)
B.   Projections On Tires: No metal tired vehicle, including tractors, motor
trucks, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated over any
improved street if such vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road wheels
any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any projection of metal or wood
which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire;
except, that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction engines
equipped with what is known as caterpillar tracks, when such caterpillar does
not contain any projection of any kind likely to injure the surface of the
road. Provided, however, that tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles
may be operated which have upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other
cleats arranged in such a manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface; and provided further, that the gross weight upon such wheels per inch
of width of such cleats in contact with the road surface, when measured in the
direction of the axle of the vehicle, does not exceed eight hundred (800)
pounds. (1970 Code § 25.46)
6-7-7: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
A.   Horn:
1.   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient audible
signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device shall be
sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a vehicle, but
such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any purpose other
than as a warning of impending danger.
2.   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren or gong signaling device. (1970 Code § 25.36)
B.   Brakes: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon any street
unless such vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working
condition, as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle
which is so loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the
mechanism operating the brakes of such vehicle. (1970 Code § 25.39)
C.   Muffler: No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such
vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; the
use of a cutout is prohibited. (1970 Code § 25.40)
D.   Lights: When upon any street in the village, during the period from sunset
to sunrise, every motorcycle shall carry one lighted lamp showing white lights,
or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible at least five hundred feet (500')
in the direction toward which such motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding,
and each motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer shall also exhibit at least one
lighted lamp which shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at
least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse direction. (1970 Code § 25.41)
E.   Tires: It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle
which is not equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state
traffic law. (1970 Code § 25.43)
6-7-8: NONSKID DEVICES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any street equipped with
any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible portion thereof
comes into contact with the pavement or roadway. (1970 Code § 25.42)
CHAPTER 8
UNSCHEDULED STOPS
 
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Intercity Bus Stops
6-8-3: Revocation Of Application
6-8-4: Penalty; Impoundment
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words or phrases have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section
6-8-1, except when the context otherwise indicates. All words or phrases not
defined in this Section have the meanings ascribed to them in the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
 
INTERCITY   Any bus used for the one-way transportation of 10 or more passengers
BUS:        originating from a location outside of the Village that is not a
            regularly scheduled service.
            Bus service involving passengers disembarking in the Village on a
REGULARLY   predictable and recurring basis either (i) following a schedule that
SCHEDULED   is published in advance and available to the general public, and
SERVICE:    provides service in exchange for paying a fare; or (ii) provided by a
            business to the business’s workers engaged in commuting to or from
            work.
            The stopping or standing of an intercity bus within the Village for
UNSCHEDULED the purpose of unloading or the disembarking of passengers without
STOP:       prior approval of the Village as required by Section
            6-8-2 of the Village Code. (Ord. 2024-2, 1-8-2024)
 
6-8-2: INTERCITY BUS STOPS:
A.   Prohibited. Unscheduled bus stops of intercity buses are declared to be a
nuisance and are prohibited in the Village.
B.   Intercity buses may stop to allow passengers to disembark in the Village
only if they comply with all of the following conditions and restrictions:
1.   Permitted Hours.
a.   Intercity buses may only stop or stand to allow passengers to disembark
within the Village between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday, but not on any federal, state, or Village holidays;
b.   No intercity bus may allow passengers to disembark except within 30
minutes before or after the time designated in an application that has been
approved pursuant to Section
6-8-2(B)(4) of this Code.
2.   Permitted Location. Intercity buses may only stop or stand to allow
passengers to disembark within the Village at the Lake Bluff Metra Station,
located at 600 Sheridan Road, Lake Bluff, Illinois, or such other location as
may be approved by the Village Administrator in their sole discretion.
3.   Coordination of Disembarking Passengers. The intercity bus must be met by
individuals responsible for coordinating the transportation of the passengers
from the stop location in the Village to their final destination(s).
4.   Advance Approval. The owner, operator, or driver of an intercity bus must
obtain advance written approval of the Village prior to making a stop and
allowing passengers to disembark within the Village. In order to obtain
advanced approval of a stop, the owner, operator, or driver of the intercity
bus must submit an application to the Village Administrator at least seven days
before the date of the proposed stop. The application must include the
following information:
a.   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers, including mobile
telephone numbers of the owner, operator, and driver of the intercity bus;
b.   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers, including mobile
telephone numbers of any entity or individuals that have either directed, paid
for, or financed the transport of persons who will disembark in the Village;
c.   The make, model, state registration/plate number, fleet number, and
vehicle identification number (VIN) of the vehicle that will be providing the
service;
d.   The quantity of persons who are proposed to disembark in the Village;
e.   The name, address, or location in the Village where the applicant proposes
to allow passengers to disembark;
f.   The full names, addresses, telephone numbers, including mobile telephone
numbers, and electronic mail addresses of all entities or individuals who will
be present to meet and receive the passengers disembarking in the Village;
g.   A detailed, written plan signed by the entity or individuals agreeing to
be responsible for providing the plan, identifying how the disembarking
passengers will be cared for, housed, and fed upon disembarking in the Village;
h.   Any additional information that the Village Administrator may require; and
i.   An affirmation by the applicant that the information provided in the
application is true and correct. Such affirmation must be attested to by a
person authorized to administer oaths or witness affirmations within the state
or territory.
5.   Review of Application. Upon receipt of the application for an intercity
bus stop submitted pursuant to this Chapter, the Village Administrator will
undertake a review of the information contained in the application to verify
its truth and authenticity. If the application is incomplete, the Village
Administrator will, in writing, advise the applicant of the additional items
needed to complete the application. No later than four days after receiving a
completed application, the Village Administrator will inform the applicant, in
writing, that the application is approved or denied for the proposed location
of disembarkation in the Village.
6.   The Village Administrator may limit the number of applications that are
approved for an intercity bus disembarkation to one on any particular day.
Applications will be processed on a first-come, first-served basis, and the
approval will be issued to the earliest filed complete and qualifying
application.
7.   Proof of Application and Approval. The driver of an intercity bus approved
pursuant to Section
6-8-2(B)(4) to stop in the Village must have in their possession a physical or
electronic copy of an approved application and present it for inspection at the
place of disembarkation, upon request by any employee or designee of the
Village. (Ord. 2024-2, 1-8-2024)
6-8-3: REVOCATION OF APPLICATION:
The approval of an application pursuant to Section
6-8-2(B)(4) may be revoked by the Village Administrator upon the
Administrator’s determination that the application contains any false or
misleading information. (Ord. 2024-2, 1-8-2024)
6-8-4: PENALTY; IMPOUNDMENT:
A.   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation that operates a bus in violation
of any provision of this Chapter 8 will be fined in an amount of not less than
$100.00 and no more than $750.00 per passenger on the bus, plus any costs
incurred by the Village.
B.   Impoundment. Village police officers are hereby authorized to seize and
impound any intercity bus that is used in the commission or furtherance of a
violation of this Chapter 8. (Ord. 2024-2, 1-8-2024)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Compliance With Specifications
7-1-2: Construction Permit Required; Application
7-1-3: Bond
7-1-4: Deposit Requirements
7-1-5: Repairs
7-1-6: Reports Of Defects
7-1-7: Owner, Occupant Duty To Make Improvements
7-1-8: Excavations
7-1-9: Barricades
7-1-10: Injuring Pavements
7-1-11: Obstructions
7-1-12: Driveways
7-1-13: Trees, Bushes And Shrubs
7-1-14: Clear View At Intersections
7-1-15: Depositing Material On Public Ways
7-1-16: Use Of Streets And Sidewalks For Displaying, Selling Or Advertising
7-1-17: Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-18: Penalty
7-1-1: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS:
All street and sidewalk pavements shall be constructed and laid in conformity
with specifications laid down or approved by ordinance, or in the absence
thereof, as directed by the village administrator; provided, however that any
construction performed in the public rights of way by utilities shall be
specifically governed by the provisions of chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2008-
01, 1-14-2008)
7-1-2: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same without first having
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
village, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction
work. (1988 Code § 5-3A-2)
7-1-3: BOND:
Each applicant shall file a bond, with surety to be approved by the village
administrator, conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing same. (1988 Code § 5-
3A-3)
7-1-4: DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Deposit Required: Prior to the commencement of any building or
construction project of a total construction value in excess of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00); or any construction project requiring a permit from the
building department which includes any significant exterior alterations or site
work, including, but not limited to, additions, decks, utility line
installations, pools, patios, or driveways; or any project requiring the
delivery of construction materials by the use of vehicles larger than passenger
vehicles or pickup trucks (collectively "work"), the property owner or the
person intending to do or undertake such work ("the principal") shall be
required to make a cash deposit with the village in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) to protect and indemnify the village against any and all
damage or injury to any village or public property, structure, equipment or
facility including, but not limited to, streets, curbs, sidewalks, parkway
trees and vegetation.
B.   Procedure To Remedy Damage: If at any time the building commissioner
determines that the principal caused damage to public property, structure,
facility or equipment as a result of work, the building commissioner shall, in
writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, notify the principal and
the owner of the subject property of such damage and the requirements for
correction of such damage. If the damage has not been corrected within thirty
(30) days of the mailing of the building commissioner's request for correction,
a second request for correction shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the principal and the owner of the subject property.
C.   Abatement By Village: Unless full compliance is achieved within thirty
(30) days from the date of receipt of the second certified mail, the village
may proceed to perform or cause to be performed such work as the building
commissioner deems necessary, utilizing the cash deposit to offset the village
costs; provided, however, any such damage or injury in excess of the sum of
such cash deposit shall remain and continue to be the joint and several
obligation of the principal and the owner of the subject property. The village
may, in addition to utilizing the cash deposit required hereby, take any and
all additional actions that may be available to enforce all applicable codes,
ordinances, and regulations of the village and to recover any damages done by
the principal or by any subcontractor of the principal or by the work.
D.   Recovery For Damages Unlimited: The cash deposit provided herein is in
addition to any other such actions and shall not be construed as a limit on the
amount of damages that may be recovered by the village or any other person or
as a limit on any other remedy or penalty provided by any code, ordinance, or
regulation of the village or otherwise by law. Upon satisfactory completion of
the work, the village shall refund the balance of the deposit less amounts
required to pay damages or injury. (Ord. 96-22, 8-26-1996)
7-1-5: REPAIRS:
All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be kept in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the abutting owner, shall
be under the supervision of the director of public works. (1988 Code § 5-3A-5)
7-1-6: REPORTS OF DEFECTS:
It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee becoming cognizant of
any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the director of public works. (1988 Code § 5-3A-6)
7-1-7: OWNER, OCCUPANT DUTY TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS:
A.   Compliance With Order: Whenever the owner or occupant of any lot in the
village shall be notified by order of the village administrator to install,
raise, lower, repair or relay any sidewalk in front of, adjacent to, or upon
any premises owned or occupied by him, it shall be the duty of such owner or
occupant to cause the said improvement to be made, in the manner and within the
time prescribed by such order. (1988 Code § 5-3A-7)
B.   Penalty: If any such owner or occupant shall neglect or refuse to comply
with any such requirement, he shall be subject to a penalty of not less than
five dollars ($5.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day's neglect. (1988 Code § 5-3A-7; amd. 2009 Code)
7-1-8: EXCAVATIONS:
A.   Tunneling Under Streets: Except in the event of an emergency, or as
otherwise herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to make any
excavation, open cut or open ditch in any paved street for the purpose of
making any connections to, replacements or repairs to any sanitary or
stormwater sewers or water mains or laterals of any nature or description. All
such connections shall be made by tunneling under any such paved street. No
such tunneling may be accomplished until a building permit therefor has been
issued by the village. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be made to the
building commissioner for issuance of such permit, and shall state thereon the
location of the intended excavation, the purpose thereof, and the person, firm
or corporation for whom the work is being done. (1988 Code § 5-3A-8)
C.   Permit Fee: The fee for such permit for tunneling and other excavation
shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "permit fees". (Ord. 89-15, 3-20-1989;
amd. 2009 Code)
D.   Bond: Each applicant for such a permit shall file a bond conditioned that
the permittee will suitably guard or protect any tunneling or excavations or
obstructions maintained or created by such permittee, and shall indemnify the
village for any loss or damage resulting from injury to any person or property
caused by such tunneling, excavation or obstruction. Any such request shall be
accompanied by a good and sufficient surety or performance bond of a reputable
insurance company authorized to transact business in the state of Illinois
insuring the prompt completion of the work for which a permit is issued, in the
amount of the cost of such work.
E.   Compliance With Conditions Of Permit: All work accomplished shall be in
strict accordance with the terms and conditions of the application and permit
authorizing the work to be done. Sufficient barricades and lights shall be
maintained to protect persons, vehicles and animals from injury by or because
of the tunneling or excavations being made.
F.   Restoration Of Public Ways: Promptly upon the completion of the work for
which the tunneling or excavation was made, the permittee shall restore the
said street, alley or public way to its original condition. All permits issued
hereunder shall be further conditioned upon the permittee being responsible for
further restoration required by his work for a period of one year from the date
of completion of the work for which a permit is issued, and said obligation
shall also be covered by bond furnished to the village.
G.   Open Cut Excavations: Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to
the contrary, the village administrator may, for good and sufficient cause,
permit open cut excavation of a paved street. Such authorization shall be
limited to those circumstances where the public interest would be served, or
when the relative benefit to the permittee is substantial, and the detriment to
the village is minimal. (1988 Code § 5-3A-8)
7-1-9: BARRICADES:
A.   Required:
1.   Excavations: Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street,
sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in any such place shall
maintain adequate and complete barricades to prevent injury to any person or
vehicle by reason of the work; such barricade to be protected by plainly
visible lights at night.
2.   Defects: Defects in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any
injury, and any person maintaining by proper authority any opening or
excavation shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights.
B.   Interference Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with
any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or
excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1988 Code § 5-
3A-9)
7-1-10: INJURING PAVEMENTS:
A.   Newly Laid Pavement: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement
while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly
injure any soft newly laid pavement.
B.   Pavements Generally: It shall be unlawful to damage any sidewalk, street
or alley pavement. (1988 Code § 5-3A-10)
7-1-11: OBSTRUCTIONS:
A.   Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or
alley. (1988 Code § 5-3A-11)
B.   Public Ways; Bond: Except as provided in section
7-1-16 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
except by authority of this chapter after application therefor made to the
village administrator and upon the filing of a street obstruction bond in the
penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in a form prescribed by the
village, which form shall be available at the village hall, and which the
applicant shall execute as principal and upon which there shall be a corporate
surety authorized by law to execute and become liable upon such bond. (Ord. 94-
13, 4-25-1994)
7-1-12: DRIVEWAYS:
A.   Construction Permit Required: No person shall construct or maintain a
driveway for vehicles or animals in or across any public sidewalk or parkway in
the village without having obtained a permit therefor from the building
commissioner.
B.   Approval By Board Of Trustees: No permit for the construction of a
driveway for commercial use or the habitual use of any other than the owner or
occupant of the premises served shall be issued except on approval by the board
of trustees.
C.   Street Grades 1 : All driveways shall be so constructed that the grade
shall be the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk at their points of
intersection. Such driveways shall meet the gutter of the street at the grade
thereof.
D.   Construction Materials: All driveways or parkways where they cross
sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete, asphalt or of such other materials
as may be approved by the village administrator. All driveways shall be
constructed and maintained in such a manner that no undue amount of gravel,
cinders or dirt shall wash down into the gutter or onto the pavement of the
street. (1988 Code § 5-3A-12)
E.   Permit Fees; Bond:
1.   Driveway Construction: Permit fees for the construction of a driveway or
the approach thereto shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "permit fees". In addition thereto, a
surety bond or cash in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be
deposited with the village treasurer for issuance of a driveway permit
requiring breaking of any curbing. Said deposit shall be returned to the person
depositing the same upon completion of the work and restoration of the
adjoining curb, gutter, roadway, property, parkway and sewer and water
facilities to their original condition prior to the construction.
2.   Resurfacing Driveway: Permit fees for the resurfacing of a driveway or the
approach thereto shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "permit fees".
3.   Damage In Excess Of Deposit: The deposit of said sum shall not relieve the
applicant and the person undertaking the work from damages in excess of said
deposit.
4.   Sealcoating: Sealcoating of a driveway shall not be considered
construction or require a permit therefor. (1988 Code § 5-3A-12; amd. 2009
Code)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 1-3-2 of this code for definition of "datum for grades"; see section
  11-1-3 of this code for definition of "Lake Bluff datum for grades".
7-1-13: TREES 1 , BUSHES AND SHRUBS:
A.   Permit Required:
1.   Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public
street, parkway or other public place owned or controlled by the village
without having first secured a permit therefor. All trees and shrubs so planted
shall be placed subject to the direction and approval of the village
administrator, or his or her designee.
2.   Removal: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub in
any street, parkway or other public place without complying with the provisions
of title 10, chapter 11 of this code.
B.   Height Requirement:
1.   The owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land in the village shall
trim all branches of any tree or shrub now or hereafter growing on said
premises which overhang any street, sidewalk, alley or public highway, so that
there shall be a clear height of twelve feet (12') above the surface of the
street, alley or highway unobstructed by branches, and a clear height of not
less than eight feet (8') over any sidewalk; and such owner or occupant shall
remove any tree or branch of a tree which is dead or decayed or has become
likely to fall on or across any street, sidewalk or public way.
2.   The village administrator, or his or her designee, may cause to be trimmed
or removed any tree or shrub overhanging any street, sidewalk, alley or public
way in violation of the provisions of this subsection.
C.   Planting Program:
1.   There is hereby established for the village a planting program subject to
the terms and provisions of this chapter.
2.   To the extent deemed necessary and practicable, the village will annually
plant trees, shrubs, and bushes in such public places deemed appropriate and
approved by the board of trustees or the village administrator, or his or her
designee.
3.   The village hereby encourages participation by property owners in such
planting program in other areas not designated by the village for immediate
plantings. Owners desirous of having plantings on public property or parkways
adjacent to their property may apply annually, in such years that this program
is in effect, for such participation. Applications therefor shall be made on
forms provided by the village for the plantings available for that year, and
shall show thereon the proposed plantings desired, the size, species, variety,
quantity and site locations therefor. Only those trees, shrubs and bushes as
approved by the board of trustees or the village administrator, or his or her
designee, shall be permitted to be planted on streets, parkways or public
places in the village.
4.   Applications of participating property owners will require an agreement on
their part to pay one-half (1/2) of the costs of planting. Each application
shall be accompanied by a check in the amount therefor.
5.   All plantings will be accomplished by the village or a contractor employed
by the village.
6.   The village administrator, or his or her designee, shall, prior to such
planting for a property owner, advise the participating owner as to the
placement approved for the planting, if different from that requested by the
property owner. Forty eight (48) hours after such notice by the village
administrator, or his or her designee, the planting placement shall be deemed
approved by the property owner. In the event of disapproval by the property
owner, the village may, at its sole expense, without participation by the
property owner, install any such plantings at locations deemed appropriate by
the village. (1988 Code § 5-3A-13; amd. 2009 Code)
7.   Applications shall specify the assumption of risk of the property owner
for any and all such plantings and the growth of plantings except to the extent
there are nursery guarantees.
8.   No plantings shall be permitted where the same interfere with sight and
safety requirements or other ordinances of the village.
9.   All plantings shall be maintained as required by ordinances of the
village.
10.   Whenever trees, shrubs or bushes are sought to be planted by a property
owner at the owner's sole expense, the plantings shall be of only items
approved by resolution of the board of trustees or the village administrator;
provided, further, that all street trees shall be at least three inches (3") in
diameter at the time of planting, measured at a point six inches (6") above
ground level. Trees with an ultimate height of thirty feet (30') and a spread
of less than twenty five feet (25') shall be planted no less than fifteen feet
(15') from the ultimate spread of the nearest tree. Trees with an ultimate
height of fifty feet (50') and a spread of over twenty five feet (25') but less
than forty feet (40') shall be planted no less than twenty five feet (25') from
the ultimate spread of the nearest tree. Trees with an ultimate height in
excess of fifty feet (50') and a spread in excess of forty feet (40') shall be
planted no less than thirty five feet (35') from the ultimate spread of the
nearest tree. (1988 Code § 5-3A-13)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 11 of this code.
7-1-14: CLEAR VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS:
In order that the view of persons driving along the public streets of the
village near the intersections thereof may not be obstructed, nor the
usefulness and convenience of such streets impaired, nor the public safety
jeopardized thereby, no hedge, wall or fence of any material or consistency
which tends or might tend to impair such view shall be constructed or permitted
to exist, and no shrubs, bushes, weeds or foliage which tend or might tend to
impair such view shall be permitted to exist on any lot or parcel of land
within fifty feet (50') of the intersection of the adjacent curb lines of any
two (2) streets in the village, of a greater height than four feet (4') above
the level of the center of the adjoining street; provided, that a hedge, wall
or fence, or shrubs, bushes or foliage exceeding the height fixed in this
section may be erected or allowed to exist or maintained on any premises within
a diagonal line running from a point on the curb line of one street fifty feet
(50') from the intersection of said curb lines to a point on the curb line of
the other street equally distant from said intersection. (1988 Code § 5-3A-14)
7-1-15: DEPOSITING MATERIAL ON PUBLIC WAYS:
A.   Leaves And Garbage: It shall be unlawful to deposit, throw, cast, drop or
leave in or on or rake or put onto any street, alley, sidewalk or public place
in the village any stones, missiles, nails, glass, metal, snow, grass, leaves,
branches of trees, garbage, peelings, paper, boards or any article that may do
injury to any person, animal or property; except, that ashes or cinders free
from any foreign substances may be spread on unimproved streets or alleys.
B.   Merchandise And Building Materials: Merchandise, building materials or
other articles may be deposited on sidewalks or public ways preparatory to
delivery; provided, that the usable width of the walk or public way is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such
articles shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1988
Code § 5-3A-15)
7-1-16: USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS FOR DISPLAYING, SELLING OR ADVERTISING:
A.   Display Or Sale Of Goods: Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, it shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or
other public place as space for the display or sale of goods, merchandise or
advertising signs, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements, unless approved in advance by the board of trustees by resolution
duly adopted.
B.   Outdoor Eating; Farmers' Markets; Outdoor Service Areas: Public rights of
way within the village may be used for outdoor eating, farmers' markets,
outdoor service areas as defined in section
3-2-1 of this code, and other similar activities; provided, that advance
written approval is granted therefor as follows:
1.   For activities that will, or are anticipated to, occur for thirty (30) or
less consecutive days, advance written approval by the village administrator
shall be required.
2.   For activities that will, or are anticipated to, occur for more than
thirty (30) consecutive days, advance approval by the board of trustees by
resolution duly adopted shall be required. (Ord. 2011-6, 4-11-2011)
7-1-17: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
A.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or
structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
B.   Poles; Wires: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires
on or over any public street, alley or other public way without having first
secured permission from the board of trustees.
C.   Gasoline Pumps, Tanks: It shall be unlawful to erect, install or maintain
any gasoline or oil storage tank in any public street or alley.
D.   Games: It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or
sidewalk where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic or
pedestrians.
E.   Awnings: All awnings hereafter erected shall be in compliance with
subsection
10-10-14B1 of this code.
F.   Driving On Sidewalks: No person shall lead, drive or cause to go or be
driven or led, any horse, wagon, cart, motorized vehicle of any nature,
motorcycle, automobile, motor truck or other vehicle upon or across any public
sidewalk except at a permanent driveway unless it be at a temporary crossing to
go into a yard or lot where no other crossing or means of access is provided,
in which case, adequate protection to said sidewalk shall be provided.
G.   Skateboard Use Regulated: No person shall ride or use a skateboard on: 1)
the public sidewalks on either side of East Scranton Avenue from Sheridan Road
to Evanston Avenue, on either side of East Center Avenue from the village hall
to East Scranton Avenue, and on either side of Oak Avenue from East Scranton
Avenue to East Center Avenue; or 2) the property currently utilized as the
village railroad station; provided, however, that skateboard use shall not be
prohibited on the bicycle path that runs through and along the railroad station
property. For the purposes of this Section, a "skateboard" shall be defined to
be a device with two (2) or more tandem axles and a combination of wheels
connected by a platform designed for standing and which is propelled by human
power. (1988 Code § 5-3A-17; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 96-31, 11-12-1996; Ord. 2022-
3, 1-24-2022)
7-1-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where no other
penalty is provided, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which the violation occurs or continues. (1988 Code §
5-3A-18; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK REPAIR/REHABILITATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Established
7-2-2: Applicability Of Program
7-2-3: Priority Of Replacements
7-2-4: Program Funding Allocation
7-2-5: Reimbursement Eligibility
7-2-6: Replacement By Village; Property Owner Deposit
7-2-7: No Conflict With Special Assessment Provisions
7-2-8: Compliance Required
7-2-9: Sidewalk Specifications
7-2-10: Repair Of Sidewalks
7-2-11: Improper Construction; Abatement
7-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established within the village a program for encouraging
repair/rehabilitation of sidewalks on village property. A village public
sidewalk repair/rehabilitation program, with joint village property owner cost
participation, is hereby established under policy and procedural guidelines
contained herein. (1988 Code § 5-3B-1)
7-2-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROGRAM:
Applications shall be restricted to replacement of sidewalks which, in the
opinion of the village administrator, are in need of replacement and shall not
be approved for new construction where sidewalks do not presently exist. (1988
Code § 5-3B-2)
7-2-3: PRIORITY OF REPLACEMENTS:
Except where circumstances dictate to the contrary, approval for replacement of
sidewalks shall be based on need and sequence of applications, and funds made
available during the budget year. When priorities must be established due to
applications on hand exceeding funding limitations, public safety and degree of
pedestrian hazard shall be the principal considerations in establishing
sidewalk replacement priorities. For long range planning, the following
additional guidelines are established:
A.   Priority 1: Sidewalks on streets serving as approaches to public and
private schools and abutting such schools.
B.   Priority 2: Sidewalks on streets used as principal walkways to schools.
C.   Priority 3: Sidewalks on streets used as principal walkways to the
railroad commuter station and central business district.
D.   Priority 4: Sidewalks on other streets. (1988 Code § 5-3B-3)
7-2-4: PROGRAM FUNDING ALLOCATION:
The board of trustees may allocate funds as considered available to support
village property owner cost participation in this sidewalk repair/
rehabilitation program. The board of trustees may from time to time designate
the applicable cost sharing program to which the funds shall be applied and may
annually establish the "per square foot" dollar amount or percent of village
participation. (1988 Code § 5-3B-4)
7-2-5: REIMBURSEMENT ELIGIBILITY:
A.   Application; Inspection: Under the village reimbursement program, the
owner shall initially submit an application for cost reimbursement eligibility.
An inspection shall then be accomplished by the director of public works or his
duly authorized representative to determine eligibility.
B.   Agreement With Property Owner: Once eligibility is established, the
village administrator, subject to fund availability, shall, on behalf of the
village, enter into a reimbursement agreement with the property owner.
Thereupon, the property owner is advised he may proceed by contract or other
arrangements to replace the sidewalk in accordance with specifications and
procedures established herein.
C.   Request Village Inspections: The property owner will be required to
request village inspections by the director of public works when forms are
installed and base is prepared for pouring concrete, and when the pour has been
completed and concrete has been finished.
D.   Request For Reimbursement: Once such work has been completed, the
inspections made and approved, the property owner submits his request for
reimbursement. All such requests shall be accompanied by a receipt for payment
of any contractor's costs along with a contractor certificate certifying
construction complies with the requirements of this chapter. In circumstances
when a contractor is not used, the owner shall submit a certificate of
compliance together with a "paid in full" receipt for any labor costs or ready
mix purchased, or materials purchased for use in the project.
E.   Approval Of Payment: When approval of payment is recommended by the
village administrator and approved by the board of trustees, the property owner
shall then be reimbursed to the extent provided herein. (1988 Code § 5-3B-5)
7-2-6: REPLACEMENT BY VILLAGE; PROPERTY OWNER DEPOSIT:
The director of public works, based upon petition of property owner and/or an
inspection of sidewalks, shall establish an eligibility list. The village
administrator, subject to fund availability and allocated and manpower
availability, may enter into agreement for sidewalk replacement with property
owners. Upon property owners entering into agreement with the village, and his
concurrent deposit of a sum of money in an amount per square foot established
from time to time by resolution of the board of trustees, the village may cause
such sidewalk to be replaced, using said deposit and paying all costs of said
replacement in excess thereof. (1988 Code § 5-3B-6)
7-2-7: NO CONFLICT WITH SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROVISIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to conflict with the construction
of sidewalks as may be provided by special assessment or special taxation, or
prevent the village from adopting such procedures. (1988 Code § 5-3B-7)
7-2-8: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful for any person to reconstruct,
repair or rehabilitate any sidewalk in the village unless the same shall be
constructed, reconstructed, repaired or rehabilitated in accordance with the
standards and methods of construction set forth herein. (1988 Code § 5-3B-8)
7-2-9: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
All public sidewalks repaired or rehabilitated in the village shall be of
Portland cement concrete, constructed in accordance with section 624 of the
Portland cement sidewalk standard, adopted by the Illinois department of
transportation on October 1, 1979, and the following additional specifications,
directions and provisions:
A.   Thickness Of Sidewalks: The thickness of all sidewalks in all residence
districts shall be not less than six inches (6"), except where said sidewalk
intersects a driveway, in which case, the thickness shall be not less than
seven inches (7") for the full width of said driveway. The thickness of all
sidewalks in all nonresidential districts shall be six inches (6") reinforced
with steel. All sidewalks shall be poured in one course.
B.   Alignment And Width Of Sidewalks: Width shall be a minimum of five feet
(5') unless approved by the director of public works or village administrator.
(1988 Code § 5-3B-9)
7-2-10: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
Wherever any sidewalk shall become broken or shall be in need of repair for any
reason whatsoever, the entire slab or slabs broken or in need of repair shall
be removed and replaced with a new slab constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. No patching with Portland cement concrete or any
other materials will be permitted, except when, in the opinion of the village
administrator, it is unreasonable to require the replacement of slabs at the
time because of unfavorable weather conditions or for other reasonable cause.
(1988 Code § 5-3B-10)
7-2-11: IMPROPER CONSTRUCTION; ABATEMENT:
No reimbursement shall be paid for any sidewalk replaced contrary to this
chapter. Any improperly constructed sidewalk, if deemed appropriate and
necessary, shall be removed and replaced by the person, either as principal or
agent responsible for the construction, after having received notice from the
village administrator to remove same. If such removal and reconstruction is not
accomplished within the period specified, it shall become the duty of the
village administrator to cause such walk to be removed and replaced with a
properly constructed walk, and the cost of said removal and replacement shall
be assessed against such person responsible for same. (1988 Code § 5-3B-11)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose; Scope; Interpretation
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Annual Registration Required
7-3-4: Permit Requirements
7-3-5: Insurance; Indemnity; Security
7-3-6: Change Of Ownership, Identity Or Legal Status
7-3-7: General Construction Standards
7-3-8: Traffic Control
7-3-9: Location Of Facilities
7-3-10: Construction Methods And Materials
7-3-11: Vegetation Control
7-3-12: Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-3-13: Cleanup And Restoration
7-3-14: Maintenance And Repairs
7-3-15: Variances
7-3-16: Penalties
7-3-17: Small Wireless Facilities
7-3-1: PURPOSE; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways
and other public ways and places;
2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the village
utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or public
property;
4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees, from the
installation of utility facilities;
5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the village residential neighborhoods;
8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the rights
of way, and require site appropriate landscaping around such facilities; and
9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties adjacent
to utility facilities locations.
C.   Scope: This chapter applies to all facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way within the jurisdiction of the
village. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof may
continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently
constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable
franchise, license or similar agreement.
D.   Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements:
1.   The village, in its discretion and as limited by law, may require
utilities to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the
privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within the village rights of way. Utilities that are not required by
law to enter into such an agreement may request that the village enter into
such an agreement. In such an agreement, the village may provide terms and
conditions inconsistent with this chapter.
2.   In the event that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a
franchise, license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise,
license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such
agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
3.   In the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency between, the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the village and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
E.   Conflicting Provisions:
1.   This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior
hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
2.   In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations conflict
with the requirements of this chapter, the utility shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating
federal or state laws or regulations.
F.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
thereto in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: As defined in 47 USC section 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: As defined in 47 USC section 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside Design
Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Lake Bluff.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DEPUTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The village deputy building commissioner or his
or her designee, other than the village administrator.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: Any work that obstructs the right of way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the right of way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a
manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The village engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
deputy building commissioner to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under a right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by a street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to section
7-3-4 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at the local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way or rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in
this definition and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for its use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to subsection
7-3-5C of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES: See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for definitions applicable to small wireless facilities.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated, nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
“sales of telecommunications at retail” as defined in this section. See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for definitions applicable to small wireless facilities.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: As defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable and video
competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Bluff.
VILLAGE TREE PRESERVATION ORDINANCE: Title 10, chapter 11 of this code.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-
14-2008; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2019-7, 4-8-2019)
7-3-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies a right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the deputy building commissioner, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and facsimile numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in subsection 7-3-5A of this chapter, in the
form of a certificate of insurance. See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for registration standards applicable to small wireless
facilities. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-7, 4-8-2019)
7-3-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Required; Exemptions: No person shall "construct" (as defined in
section
7-3-2 of this chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within any village right of way which: 1) changes the location of
the facility; 2) adds a new facility; 3) disrupts the "right of way" (as
defined in section
7-3-2 of this chapter); or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space
occupied by the facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the
right of way without first filing an application with the deputy building
commissioner and obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customer premises where
there will be no disruption of the right of way. See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for requirements applicable to small wireless
facilities.
B.   Application For Permit:
1.   All applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be filed on a
form provided by the village and shall be filed in such number of duplicate
copies as the village may designate. The applicant may designate those portions
of its application materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or
confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking
each page of such materials accordingly. See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for requirements related to small wireless facilities.
2.   The application shall be made by the utility or its duly authorized
representative and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
a.   The utility's name and address and telephone and facsimile numbers;
b.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and facsimile numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
c.   The names, addresses and telephone and facsimile numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
d.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of
the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The scope and
detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of
the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be
affected or impacted by the work proposed. Where the applicant intends to
construct or where the application clearly requires additional facilities in
the rights of way within eighteen (18) months after the date of submission of
the application, the applicant shall include a proposed facilities plan showing
the type and location of facilities intended or required;
e.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
(1)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective measures and
devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or property
and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
(2)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of potential
emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and hazardous
materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant. The intended
response shall include notification to the village and shall promote protection
of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC regulations
for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this section unless
the village finds that additional information or assurances are needed;
f.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed, including a
stormwater drainage plan, landscaping plans, and the certification of an
engineer that such drawings, plans, and specifications comply with applicable
codes, rules, and regulations;
g.   An arborist's certification that the proposed work complies with the
village tree preservation ordinance;
h.   Evidence of insurance as required in subsection
7-3-5A of this chapter;
i.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in subsection
7-3-5C of this chapter;
j.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this chapter
(see section
7-3-15 of this chapter); and
k.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the village.
See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for requirements related to small wireless facilities.
3.   In addition to the requirements of subsection B2 of this section, the
permit application shall include the following items, as applicable to the
specific utility that is the subject of the permit application:
a.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power, communications,
telecommunications, cable television service, video service or natural gas
distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public convenience and
necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant is required by
law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has been issued by
the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
b.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size, design,
construction class, and operating pressures;
c.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the Illinois
environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies, have been
satisfied;
d.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and water
pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, the Lake County stormwater management
agency and the North Shore sanitary district have been satisfied; or
e.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types of
petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
4.   Throughout the entire permit application review period and the
construction period authorized by the permit, any amendments to information
contained in a permit application shall be submitted by the utility in writing
to the village within thirty (30) days after the change necessitating the
amendment.
C.   Fees; Exemptions:
1.   Application Fee: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "construction/building fees". No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee law 1 .. See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for requirements related to small wireless facilities.
2.   Inspection Fees: Any person obtaining a permit under this chapter for
which inspections are performed by or on behalf of the village shall reimburse
the village for the actual cost of such inspections. The deputy building
commissioner shall from time to time determine the actual per hour costs of
village employees for purposes of calculating the costs of such inspections. No
inspection fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying
the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee law.
D.   Action On Applications:
1.   Review Of Applications; Grant Or Denial Of Permit: Completed permit
applications, containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the
deputy building commissioner within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not: a) conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations; or b) substantially conform to any
proposed facilities plan submitted by the applicant pursuant to subsection B2
of this section within the previous eighteen (18) months, the deputy building
commissioner shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the deputy building commissioner is satisfied that the proposed
work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the deputy building commissioner shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the deputy
building commissioner, that the construction proposed under the application
shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter. No
application from the same applicant for facilities not included in any proposed
facilities plan shall be approved within six (6) months after submission of
such plan without a variance pursuant to section
7-3-15 of this chapter.
2.   Additional Village Review Of Telecommunications Retailers:
a.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it
intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the
provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to the commencement
of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The deputy building commissioner
shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the facility may be
placed, used and constructed.
b.   In the event that the deputy building commissioner fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: 1)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction; or
2) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
c.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a permit is
required for work pursuant to this section, the telecommunications retailer
shall submit to the village an application for a permit and any and all plans,
specifications and documentation available regarding the facility to be
constructed. Such application shall be subject to the requirements of
subsection D1 of this section.
3.   Additional Review Of Holders Of State Authorization Under The Cable And
Video Competition Law: Applications by a utility that is a holder of a state
issued authorization under the cable and video competition law of 2007 shall be
deemed granted forty five (45) days after submission to the village, unless
otherwise acted upon by the village, provided the holder has complied with
applicable village codes, ordinances, and regulations. (Ord. 2009-3, 2-9-2009)
E.   Effect Of Permit:
1.   A permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
2.   No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period longer
than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within that period
and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
3.   Unless waived in writing by the deputy building commissioner, no
construction shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior
to attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who
will perform any work under the permit at a preconstruction meeting. The
preconstruction meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by
the village with such village representatives in attendance as the village
deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work
under the permit, and reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas
where work will occur, including, without limitation, presence or absence of
other utility facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid
disruption of other utilities, use of rights of way by the public during
construction, and access and egress by adjacent property owners.
4.   The issuance of a permit by the village does not excuse the permittee from
complying with other requirements of the village and applicable statutes, laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations.
F.   Revised Permit Drawings: In the event that the actual locations of any
facilities deviate in any material respect from the locations identified in the
plans, drawings and specifications submitted with the permit application, the
permittee shall submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within
ninety (90) days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised
drawings or plans shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual
facilities deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation
from the permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall
be treated as a request for variance in accordance with section
7-3-15 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
G.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
1.   Grounds: The village may revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
a.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete statements in
the permit application;
b.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
c.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way presents a
direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
d.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
2.   Notice Requirements: The village shall send written notice of its intent
to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter stating the
reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the alternatives
available to the permittee under this subsection.
3.   Options Of Permittee:
a.   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from the
village, the permittee shall have the following options:
(1)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
(2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the deficiencies
stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such correction to the
village within five (5) working days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation; or
(3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along, upon,
under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way to the
satisfaction of the village, providing written proof of such removal to the
village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
b.   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
4.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation or
suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection G1 of this
section.
5.   Failure Or Refusal Of Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection G3 of this section, the village or its
designee may, at the option of the village: a) correct the deficiencies; b)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or c) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008; amd.
Ord. 2019-7, 4-8-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.
7-3-5: INSURANCE; INDEMNITY; SECURITY:
A.   Insurance Requirements:
1.   Coverages And Limits:
a.   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar agreement,
each utility occupying a right of way or constructing any facility in the right
of way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance policies
insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village and its elected
and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional insureds
on the policies listed in subsections A1a(1) and A1a(2) of this section:
(1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises operations,
explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to as "X", "C",
and "U" coverages) and products completed operations coverage with limits not
less than:
               (A)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
               (B)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
               (C)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types
of liability;
(2)   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
(3)   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
(4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
b.   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors
and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this subsection.
2.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this subsection may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
3.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the policies
required by this subsection to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
4.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
a.   The insurance policies required by this subsection shall contain the
following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.
b.   Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this subsection.
5.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A1 of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A1 of this section, or the requirements of
subsections A2, A3 and A4 of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure
shall provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial
ability to self- insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required
under subsection A1 of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a
"private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act 1 .
6.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The legal
liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the matters
that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance required by
this subsection shall not be limited by such insurance policies or self-
insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
7.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this subsection
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
B.   Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of
way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from, or alleged
to arise out of or result from, the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction
of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar
agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct
or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees,
agents or representatives.
C.   Security:
1.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in an
amount as set forth in this subsection. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this subsection at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
a.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of this
chapter;
b.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned by the
permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this chapter;
and
c.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims, costs, or
expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by the permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
2.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to
the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this
subsection C2 shall, at a minimum:
a.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the village
and the permittee;
b.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by the
village of any amounts covered thereby; and
c.   Provide a location convenient to the village and within the state of
Illinois at which it can be drawn.
3.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the deputy building commissioner, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the deputy building
commissioner may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C3 for any single phase.
4.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice,
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection C4, may withdraw an amount from the security fund;
provided, that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
a.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee hereunder;
b.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and unpaid;
c.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or expenses
which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by the permittee; or
d.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
5.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written notice
from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in subsection
C3 of this section.
6.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued on
the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village; provided, that any
such withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance
required in subsection C3 of this section.
7.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation;
provided, that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
8.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to the
security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-
14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
7-3-6: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village rights of
way.
C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must be
changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-
14-2008)
7-3-7: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the rights of way shall
comply with all applicable federal, state and local ordinances, codes, laws,
rules and regulations, and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and
construction principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the
principles and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as
amended from time to time:
1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
3.   "Highway Design Manual";
4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Illinois
administrative code section 545);
7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
B.   Interpretation Of Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy exists
between or among differing principles and standards required by this chapter,
the deputy building commissioner shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the deputy building commissioner shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
A.   Minimum Requirements: The village minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
7-3-14 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
E.   Compliance Required: The utility shall take immediate action to correct
any deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable to
specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
1.   Interference With Village Facilities Prohibited: No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the deputy building commissioner determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the village utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the
operation or maintenance of any of the village utility facilities.
2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause only
the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and shall
cause only the minimum possible impact upon and interference with the rights
and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of way.
3.   Interference With Travel Prohibited: No utility facility shall be placed
in any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
4.   Limitations On Visibility Prohibited: No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
6.   Small Wireless Facilities: See Section
7-3-17 of this Chapter for requirements related to small wireless facilities.
B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be located
within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line and as
nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment will
permit;
b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from the curb
with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of the curb,
where available;
c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge as
practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of
the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way line.
2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as practicable and
not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the right of way
line;
b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway only if
other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound engineering
judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit without
disrupting the pavement); and
c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the facility
shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not more than
five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line, and any above grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way
line or as near as practicable.
C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing facilities
installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways may require
the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall
not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at or as
near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICU rules
entitled, "Construction Of Electric Power And Communication Lines" (83 Illinois
administrative code 305);
b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line of
the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide maximum
maintenance free service life; and
b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is provided
in the initial installation.
6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at each
right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
D.   Location Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village may require that
facilities be located within particular rights of way that are not highways,
rather than within particular highways.
E.   Freestanding Facilities:
1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a right
of way to be screened from view.
F.   Aboveground Facilities: Aboveground facilities may be installed only if:
1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will employ
suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of aesthetic
qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting safety.
Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless,
single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever practicable.
The installation of additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present a high degrees of risk, and such installations are not
permitted.
2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be transmitted
and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in the event of
damage to or failure of the facility;
b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway structure
in the transportation system;
c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their comparative
practicability;
d.   The proposed method of attachment;
e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the proposed
facility;
f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared to the
risk involved.
H.   Appearance Standards:
1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not require
extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to the
right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it does
not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2008-01,
1-14-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-7, 4-8-2019)
7-3-10: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction Methods:
1.   Boring Or Jacking:
a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the deputy
building commissioner from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be permitted under
the roadway.
c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six inches
(6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches (6") or
less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger, or
auger and following pipe method.
e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of any tree
designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall comply with the
village tree preservation ordinance.
2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or maintenance on
rights of way shall be done in accordance with the applicable portions of
section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable minimum
consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only one-half (1/2) of any
intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special permission is
obtained from the deputy building commissioner.
b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed excavated
material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated material
shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added protection.
Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved portion of the
roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing excavated
material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material shall be
hauled to an off road location.
c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip line of
any tree designated to be preserved pursuant to the village tree preservation
ordinance.
3.   Backfilling:
a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a facility
is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore any
backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the deputy building commissioner, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
deputy building commissioner.
4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair shall be
permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed to
traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
7-3-15 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted as soon
as practicable with granular material of CA-6 gradation, as designated by the
deputy building commissioner.
b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a concrete
surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last three (3)
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE
locate.
5.   Encasement:
a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the highway and any
other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either by one piece
fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the village.
b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be located in
the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the highway.
c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall be
furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type pipe shall
be encased regardless of installation method.
d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less, encasement may be
eliminated.
e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair;
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products pipeline, the
facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does not disrupt
the right of way.
6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities within
village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"Rules For Construction Of Electric Power And Communications Lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities shall use
single pole construction, and where practicable, joint use of poles shall be
used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the installation
so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no
feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards for maximum
visibility.
c.   Underground Facilities:
(1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that special
consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when crossing
improved entrances and side roads.
(2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall be
provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if: a)
the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or other
approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
(3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national electrical safety
code.
d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between November 1 of
the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as "snow drops",
shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting, unless
otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall bury
all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days after
placement.
2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines may be
installed by:
a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the ditch lines
or toes of slopes of the highway;
c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines or toes of
slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not possible
by other means.
3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within rights of
way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village approved manner
and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline safety
operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of natural
and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR section
192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", and
all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within rights
of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code for
pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-B 31.4).
5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or Drainage
Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines, and drainage
lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the
current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to overhead or
underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall be provided
with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in width beyond
the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may be provided by
an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or similar material
approved by the deputy building commissioner. With the approval of the deputy
building commissioner, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in
place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
C.   Materials:
1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities within
rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the appropriate
industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the Illinois commerce commission,
or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the
appropriate industry.
2.   Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the right of way
without the prior written approval of the deputy building commissioner. When
such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the village
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
D.   Operational Restrictions:
1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of the
village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
2.   These restrictions may be waived by the deputy building commissioner when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction are
those set forth in section
9-2-3 (3313) of this code.
E.   Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct facilities in the
village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and location of existing
aboveground and underground facilities within the rights of way to be occupied
by its proposed facilities. The village will make its permit records available
to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible facilities. When notified
of an excavation or when requested by the village or by JULIE, a utility shall
locate and physically mark its underground facilities within forty eight (48)
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the Illinois
underground facilities damage prevention act, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
50/1 et seq. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-11: VEGETATION CONTROL:
A.   Compliance With Tree Preservation Regulations: All work pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to the requirements of the village tree preservation
ordinance.
B.   Chemical Use:
1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be permitted on
rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction of the deputy
building commissioner that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-12: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
A.   Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights of way.
B.   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the village, any
utility that owns, controls, or maintains any unauthorized facility or related
appurtenances within the rights of way shall, at its own expense, remove all or
any part of such facilities or appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility
is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or franchise,
unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant of a
license or franchise, if required;
3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance of a
required permit in violation of this chapter; or
4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not permitted
by the permittee's license or franchise.
C.   The village retains the right and privilege to cut or move any facilities
located within the rights of way of the village, as the village may determine
to be necessary, appropriate or useful, in response to any public health or
safety emergency. If circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify
the utility, if known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify
the utility, if known, after cutting or removing a facility.
D.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the rights of way of the village,
the utility shall notify the village within ninety (90) days. Following receipt
of such notice, the village may direct the utility to remove all or any portion
of the facility if the deputy building commissioner determines that such
removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare.
In the event that the village does not direct the utility that abandoned the
facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the village, the
abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of
all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
E.   In the event that all or part of a public right of way is: 1) closed to
utilities; or 2) vacated, or if ownership of the land under the affected public
right of way is otherwise transferred to a party other than the village, a
utility must remove its facilities from the public right of way at its own cost
and expense. If a closing, vacation, or transfer of a public right of way is
undertaken for the benefit of any private person, the village may condition its
consent to such closing, vacation, or transfer of the public right of way on
the agreement of the private person to: 1) grant all utilities having
facilities in the public right of way the right to continue to occupy and use
such public right of way; or 2) reimburse the utilities for their reasonable
costs to relocate their facilities. The village shall provide not less than
ninety (90) days' prior notice to a utility of any such closing, vacation, or
transfer to allow the utility to remove its facilities where the right to
continue to occupy and use such public right of way is not reserved for the
utility. (Ord. 2009-3, 2-9-2009)
7-3-13: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the deputy building commissioner. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the deputy building commissioner for good cause shown. (Ord. 2008-
01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-14: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
A.   General Maintenance Requirements: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon,
under, across, or within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the
utility in a manner satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit.
1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the right of
way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary protection
for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way including the use
of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does not exist on the
traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to require the parking
on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations, adequate signs and
lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an emergency will
only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility is available.
2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the deputy
building commissioner or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file with the village, in writing, a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-15: VARIANCES:
A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more of
the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the deputy building
commissioner as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The deputy building commissioner shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
C.   Conditions:
1.   The deputy building commissioner may authorize a variance only if the
utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
a.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
b.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that would
conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are impracticable
in relation to the requested approach.
2.   As a condition for authorizing a variance, the deputy building
commissioner may require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable
standards and conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this
chapter but which carry out the purposes of this chapter.
D.   Appeals: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance, made by the deputy building
commissioner under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the village administrator. The application for appeal shall be
submitted in writing to the village clerk within thirty (30) days after the
date of such order, requirement, decision or determination. The village
administrator shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-16: PENALTIES:
A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. There may be times when the village will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or
cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility
shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action
is appropriate, the utility shall bear the village costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned thereto.
B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-01, 1-14-2008)
7-3-17: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish standards for the
location, installation, and maintenance of small wireless facilities in
compliance with the Illinois Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act and
Village standards.
B.   Definitions. Capitalized words or phrases in this Section that are not
defined in this Subsection (b) have the meanings ascribed to them in the
Illinois Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. The following words and
phrases have the meanings ascribed to them:
SWF:                              A small wireless facility.
SWF ACT:                          The Illinois Small Wireless Facilities
                                  Deployment Act.
                                  A pole or similar structure that is used in
                                  whole or in part by a communications service
UTILITY POLE:                     provider or for electric distribution,
                                  lighting, traffic control, or a similar
                                  function.
                                  Equipment at a fixed location that enables
                                  wireless communications between user
                                  equipment and a communications network,
                                  including (i) equipment associated with
                                  wireless communications and (ii) radio
                                  transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-
                                  optic cable, regular and backup power
                                  supplies, and comparable equipment,
                                  regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY:                Wireless Facility includes small wireless
                                  facilities. Wireless Facility does not
                                  include the structure or improvements on,
                                  under, or within which the equipment is
                                  Collocated or wireline backhaul facilities,
                                  coaxial or fiber optic cable that is between
                                  wireless support structures or utility poles
                                  or coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is
                                  otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
                                  directly associated with an antenna.
                                  Any entity authorized to provide
                                  telecommunications service in the State that
                                  builds or installs wireless communication
                                  transmission equipment, wireless facilities,
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: wireless support structures, or utility poles
                                  and that is not a Wireless Services Provider
                                  but is acting as an agent or a contractor for
                                  a Wireless Services Provider for the
                                  application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER:                A Wireless Infrastructure Provider or a
                                  Wireless Services Provider.
                                  Any services provided to the general public,
                                  including a particular class of customers,
WIRELESS SERVICES:                and made available on a nondiscriminatory
                                  basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
                                  whether at a fixed location or mobile, using
                                  wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER:       An entity that provides wireless services.
 
C.   Permit Required. No SWF may be installed within the Village unless a
permit is first obtained in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
D.   Permit Application. All applicants for a permit to install an SWF within
the Village must submit a written permit application to the deputy building
commissioner by personal delivery, on a form provided by the Village. The
permit application must include the following information:
1.   Contact Information. The names and contact information of the Wireless
Services Provider and the Wireless Infrastructure Provider if any.
2.   Description. A description and depiction of the Wireless Services
Provider’s existing SWFs located within the Village.
3.   Location, Photographs. The location and photographs of each proposed SWF
and its surroundings, depicting the poles or structures on which each proposed
SWF would be mounted.
4.   Specifications, Drawings. Specifications and drawings prepared by a
licensed professional engineer for each proposed SWF as it is proposed to be
installed, with a certification that each SWF complies with all applicable size
and location standards.
5.   Structural Analysis. A site-specific structural analysis of each location
by a licensed professional engineer that examines the acceptability of the site
for factors such as pole loading from existing utility equipment and conductors
as well as the SWF.
6.   Radio Engineering Analysis. A site-specific certification by a radio
engineer that the installation and operation of the SWF complies with and will
operate within all applicable FCC standards.
7.   Equipment, Model Numbers. The equipment type and model numbers for the
antennas and all other wireless equipment associated with each proposed SWF.
8.   Number. The total number of SWFs the Wireless Services Provider estimates
it will seek within the Village.
9.   Schedule. A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
proposed SWF.
10.   Proof of Insurance. Proof of insurance coverage of the types and amount
set forth in this Subsection.
11.   Certification of SWF Act Compliance. A certification that the proposed
SWF complies with Subsection 15(d)(6) of the SWF Act and this Subsection.
12.   Application Fees. An application fee as set out in Section
1-12-3 of this Code for SWFs under the category “Construction / Building Fees.”
13.   Owner, Co-Owner Certification. A certification from the owner or co-owner
of the Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure that the owner or co-owner
has approved installation of an SWF on the Utility Pole or Wireless Support
Structure.
E.   Review of Application. Applications will be reviewed in accordance with
the following process, except that the deputy building commissioner may alter
the review process for an application as appropriate based on the elements of
that application.
1.   Determination of Completeness. Within 30 days after an application is
filed, the deputy building commissioner will determine whether the application
is complete. The deputy building commissioner will notify the applicant of the
deputy building commissioner’s determination. If an application is not
complete, then the deputy building commissioner will identify the missing
information.
2.   Processing Time Period. The deputy building commissioner will process a
complete application within 90 days, except that a complete application that
includes Collocation of an SWF on a new Utility Pole will be processed within
120 days.
3.   Approvals, Permits. The deputy building commissioner will approve an
application and issue a permit if it meets all requirements of the SWF Act and
applicable Village Code requirements. A permit is valid for five years. When
the permit expires, the Village will renew the permit except if the Village
determines the SWF does not conform to any application federal, state, or local
code or regulation. The Wireless Provider must provide all reports, plans, and
other documents and data necessary for the Village to determine conformance of
the SWF.
4.   Denial. The deputy building commissioner will deny an application if it
does not meet all requirements of the SWF Act and applicable requirements of
the Village Code. The deputy building commissioner will notify the applicant of
the denial and the reason or reasons for the denial.
F.   Guidance on SWF Locations. Based on various factors including, among
others, public safety, existing Utility Poles and Wireless Facilities, and
potential adverse impacts, the applicant must consider Collocation in these
locations, with the items listed from most preferable to least preferable:
1.   Village Light Poles. Village-owned light poles specifically designed to
accommodate SWFs (i) within arterial rights-of-way with ground-mounted
equipment or (ii) new decorative light poles with ground-mounted equipment. See
also Subsection (g) of this Section below.
2.   Village Utility Poles. Village-owned Utility Poles other than light poles
or standards (whether existing or to be installed) in the following order of
priority: (i) within an arterial street right-of-way, (ii) within a parking lot
or on other property related to a governmental or institutional use, and (iii)
within a collector street right-of-way.
3.   Public Utilities’ Poles. Utility poles owned or maintained by ComEd or
other public utilities.
4.   Privately Owned Poles. Privately-owned Utility Poles, but only in
locations approved by the Village.
5.   Other Village Light Poles. Village-owned light poles or standards (whether
existing or to be installed) in the following priority: (i) within an arterial
street right-of-way, (ii) within a parking lot or on other property related to
a governmental or institutional use, and (iii) within a collector street right-
of-way.
6.   Other Poles. Utility Poles, regardless how of ownership, located in a rear
yard (or abutting easement) of any residential dwelling.
G.   Decorative Utility Poles, Concealment of SWF. If the deputy building
commissioner determines that an SWF proposed by the applicant would have an
unduly adverse impact on the abutting area unless the SWF is Collocated on a
decorative pole or is concealed, then the deputy building commissioner may
require, as a condition of approval of that SWF, a decorative Utility Pole or
concealment. The deputy building commissioner may meet with the applicant to
determine the plans for the SWF under that circumstance. If an agreement on
plans cannot be reached, then the deputy building commissioner may deny the
permit for that proposed SWF.
H.   Prohibited Locations. SWFs are prohibited at the following locations
except as otherwise required by applicable law:
1.   Residential Property. On any property classified in a residential district
under the Village’s Zoning Code.
2.   Private Property. On any privately-owned property except with the approval
of the Village.
3.   Government Property. On any property owned or controlled by a unit of
local government that is not located within Rights-Of-Way, except with the
permission of the local government and approval of the Village.
4.   Poles with Equipment. On any Utility Pole that includes equipment such as
capacitor banks, transformers, cable terminals, cable rises, fuses, or
disconnects.
I.   Size of Components. No element of an SWF may exceed six cubic feet in
volume.
J.   Overall Height. No element of an SWF may extend above 45 feet above grade.
K.   Height Above Pole. No element of an SWF may extend more than 10 feet above
a Utility Pole.
L.   New Utility Pole, Wireless Support Structure Height. A new Utility Pole
intended for an SWF, or a new Wireless Support Structure, may not exceed a
height of 45 feet. No SWF installed on a new Utility Pole or Wireless Support
Structure may extend above that 45-feet height.
M.   New Utility Pole Location. No new Utility Pole may be constructed for an
SWF within 100 feet of an existing Utility Pole that the applicant may use on
reasonable terms and conditions and without undue technical limits or undue
additional costs. Any applicant asserting that no Utility Pole within 200 feet
can be used by the applicant must provide a written certification describing
the property rights, technical limits, or material cost reasons that no
alternate location can satisfy this criteria.
N.   Color. Antennas and equipment cabinets must be in colors harmonious with,
and that generally blend into, the surroundings.
O.   Mounting Strength. The strength and sufficiency of the support structure,
and the mounting of the antenna and related equipment, must be verified and
stamped by a licensed structural engineer on the drawing required under
Subsection.
P.   Landscaping. The immediate area around any ground-mounted equipment or
cabinets must be landscaped in a manner that largely screens the equipment and
cabinets, as determined by the Village.
Q.   Guy Wires Prohibited. No guy wire or other support wires may be used in
connection with an SWF antenna or its related equipment except for preexisting
guy wires or other support wires on a preexisting Wireless Support Structure.
R.   Grounding. An SWF antenna and related structure must be bonded to a ground
rod.
S.   Emergency Disconnection. An SWF antenna must have an emergency disconnect.
T.   IDOT, Lake County Approvals. The applicant must provide proof of
concurrence of IDOT or Lake County for the use of traffic signals located on
state or county roads.
U.   Lighting. No SWF may be lighted unless required by the Federal Aviation
Administration or other federal or state agency with jurisdiction and
authority.
V.   Signs and Advertising. Unless required by federal or state law, or by a
rule of a federal or state regulatory agency with jurisdiction and authority,
no markings, signs, or advertising of any kind may be placed on any SWF
component except unobtrusive identification or location markings.
W.   Building Codes and Safety Standards. An SWF must meet or exceed (1) all
requirements of the Village Code, (2) all other applicable local and state
building codes and electrical codes, (3) and industry standards.
X.   Regulatory Compliance. Each SWF and Wireless Facility must meet or exceed
current standards and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, the
Federal Aviation Administration, and any other federal or state agency with
jurisdiction and authority.
Y.   Abandonment. Any SWF that has been abandoned or is being used for a
purpose other than its original purpose must be removed at the owner’s expense.
Any SWF that has been out of operation for any reason, or used for a purpose
other than its original purpose, for more than 90 days will be deemed by the
Village to be abandoned.
Z.   Rates and Fees for Use of Village Utility Pole. The Village will set and
charge nondiscriminatory rates and fees for Collocation on Village Utility
Poles as set out in Section
1-12-3 of this Code for SWFs under the category “Construction/ Building Fees.”
AA.   Annual Rate. In addition to the rates and fees for Collocation, each
Wireless Services Provider must pay an annual fee as set out in Section
1-12-3 of this Code for SWFs under the category “Construction / Building Fees”
for each SWF located on a Village Utility Pole in Right-Of-Way or the actual,
direct, and reasonable costs related to the Wireless Provider’s use of space on
the Village’s Utility Pole and an annual fee for each SWF on Village property
not located in Right-Of-Way.
BB.   Operating Agreement. Prior to commencement of SWF construction on a
Village-owned Utility Pole, the owner must develop an operating agreement
satisfactory to the deputy building commissioner. The agreement must include
protocols for emergency response and for maintenance of the Utility Pole and
include emergency contacts, a contact for public inquires, the utility billing
address, and the legal address of the Wireless Services Provider.
CC.   Utility Worker Safety. Prior to the commencement of SWF construction, the
Wireless Provider must provide the Village with any required safety precautions
for individuals working on or near the SWF. If refresher training, personal
protective equipment, or tools are required for safety purposes related to an
SWF Collocated on a Village-owned Utility Pole, then the Wireless Services
Provider must reimburse the Village for all of its actual costs of those
elements.
DD.   SWF Equipment Replacement. The Wireless Provider must notify the Village
at least 10 days prior to a planned equipment replacement and provide the
equipment specifications. The replacement equipment must be the same size and/
or smaller than the original installation. The notification must include a
radio engineer’s site-specific certification that the continuing operation of
the small wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC standards.
EE.   Right-Of-Way Permit. The Wireless Provider must secure a permit for any
activities in the right-of-way that affect traffic patterns or require lane
closures.
FF.   General Standards.
1.   No Interference. Every Wireless Provider’s operation of a Wireless
Facility must not interfere with the frequencies used by any public safety
agency for public safety communications. The Wireless Provider must install
SWFs of the type and frequency that will not cause interference with any public
safety agency’s communications equipment. Unacceptable interference will be
determined by and measured in accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s
regulations addressing unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or
any other spectrum licensed by a public safety agency.
2.   Curing Interference. If an SWF causes interference and the Wireless
Provider has been given written notice of the interference by the Village or a
public safety agency, then the Wireless Provider, at its expense, must take all
reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the interference, including
without limitation powering down the SWF. The Village may terminate a permit
for a SWF based on interference if the Wireless Provider is not making a good
faith effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement
and resolution procedures for interference with public safety spectrum
established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR
90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675.
3.   Compliance with Contract Terms. Every Wireless Provider must comply with
all requirements imposed by a contract between the Village and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
Utility Poles and to ground-mounted equipment located in Right-Of-Way.
4.   Spacing. Every Wireless Provider must comply with spacing requirements in
this Section or any other applicable Village code or ordinance concerning the
location of ground-mounted equipment located in the Right-Of-Way. A Wireless
Provider may apply for a variation of a spacing requirement.
5.   Undergrounding. Every Wireless Provider must comply with all Village codes
and regulations regarding undergrounding of utilities and facilities and
prohibitions on installation of new, or modification of existing, Utility Poles
in a Right-Of-Way. A Wireless Provider may apply for a variation of an
undergrounding requirement.
6.   General Village Standards. Every Wireless Provider must comply with
generally applicable Village standards for construction and public safety in
the Rights-Of-Way, including without limitation wiring and cabling
requirements, grounding requirements, Utility Pole extension requirements, and
sign restrictions. Every Wireless Provider must comply with all Village
regulations applicable to the location, size, surface area and height of
Wireless Facilities and the abandonment and removal of SWFs.
7.   Poles for Electricity Distribution. No Wireless Services Provider may
Collocate a Wireless Facility on a Village Utility Pole that is part of an
electricity distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the Utility Pole or the electricity supply zone of the Utility
Pole, except that the antenna and support equipment of the Wireless Facility
may be located in the communications space on the Village’s Utility Pole and on
the top of the Utility Pole if no other Utility Pole is available and the
Wireless Provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of
the Utility Pole. The National Electric Safety Code applies to the provisions
of this Subsection.
8.   Public Safety Codes. Every Wireless Provider must comply with all
applicable State, County, and Village codes, ordinances, and regulations that
concern public safety.
9.   Decorative, Stealth, Concealment Standards. Every Wireless Provider must
comply with the Village’s generally applicable written standards for decorative
Utility Poles, and the Village’s generally applicable standards regarding
stealth, concealment, and aesthetics, and the Village’s design or concealment
measures in a historic district or regarding a historic landmark.
10.   Insurance. Every Wireless Provider must insurance as provided in Section
7-3-5 of this Chapter
11.   Indemnification. Every Wireless Provider must indemnify the Village as
provided in Section
7-3-5 of this Chapter.
GG.   Installation and Maintenance of Wireless Facilities. Each Wireless
Provider must construct, install, and maintain all Wireless Facilities in
accordance with the standards set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 2019-7, 4-8-
2019; amd. Ord. 2021-15, 7-26-2021)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Park District Property, Liquor Or Drugs Prohibited
7-4-2: Village Parks, Liquor Or Drugs Prohibited
7-4-3: Skokie River Nature Preserve Trail Regulations
7-4-1: PARK DISTRICT PROPERTY, LIQUOR OR DRUGS PROHIBITED 1 :
A.   Definitions:
    ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and any other
liquid or solid which is defined as an "alcoholic liquor" by the Illinois
liquor control act 2 .
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance so defined under the statutes of the
state of Illinois 3 .
B.   Sale Or Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, deliver, consume or possess for consumption any alcoholic liquor or
controlled substance in the following facilities or grounds, which are owned,
operated or maintained by the Lake Bluff park district:
      Artesian park
      Beachfront Ravine park
      Blair park
      Mawman park
      Sunrise park
C.   Application For Exception: The park district may grant exceptions to the
consumption of alcohol in a park above designated, upon application by a
resident of the park district, for such reasons as may be in the best interest
of the district and the residents thereof. Every resident applying for an
exception, whether an individual, group or organization, must satisfy the
following requirements:
1.   Applications must be in writing, must specify the date for which an
exception is requested, and must be made not less than five (5) days in advance
of the specified date.
2.   The applicant must obtain dramshop liability insurance in maximum
insurance coverage limits so as to save harmless the park district from all
financial loss, damage or harm, and must deposit a certificate of such
insurance with the district. (1988 Code § 5-4-1)
D.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this section shall be a fine not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for any one offense. (1988 Code § 5-4-1; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 3-2-35 of this code.
2 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.05.
3 3. 720 ILCS 570/102(f), 570/201 et seq.
7-4-2: VILLAGE PARKS, LIQUOR OR DRUGS PROHIBITED:
A.   Definitions: See subsection 7-4-1A of this chapter.
B.   Sale Or Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell, deliver, consume or possess for consumption any alcoholic liquor or
controlled substance in the following facilities or grounds which are owned,
operated or maintained by the village:
      Pedestrian paths
      The Skokie River nature preserve trail
      Village green
      Washington park
      All other unnamed neighborhood parks
C.   Penalty: See subsection 7-4-1D of this chapter. (1988 Code § 5-4-2; amd.
2009 Code)
7-4-3: SKOKIE RIVER NATURE PRESERVE TRAIL REGULATIONS:
A.   Hours Of Usage: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, use, or
occupy the Skokie River nature preserve trail at any time before sunrise or
after sunset of every day of the year except as expressly authorized herein.
This subsection shall not apply to:
1.   Emergency situations;
2.   The after hours entry, usage, or occupancy of the Skokie River nature
preserve trail by an authorized licensee of the village, or its agent, in
connection with the construction, maintenance, or landscape management of the
Skokie River nature preserve trail pursuant to a license agreement with the
village; or
3.   The members of occasional after sunset guided tours for bird and sky
watching and other similar passive purposes conducted by an authorized licensee
of the village, or its agent, pursuant to a license agreement with the village;
provided, that:
a.   Such after sunset tours originate and terminate only at the JAWA access
point; and
b.   The village administrator is advised of any such tour at least three (3)
business days prior to the day on which such tour is scheduled to occur.
B.   Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to use or operate bicycles, automobiles,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, minibikes, and all other motorized vehicles at any
time on the Skokie River nature preserve trail. This subsection shall not apply
to emergency vehicles or to construction and maintenance vehicles used in
connection with the construction, maintenance and management of the Skokie
River nature preserve trail pursuant to a license agreement with the village.
C.   Littering: It shall be unlawful to litter or create waste on the Skokie
River nature preserve trail at any time.
D.   Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful to conduct or participate in
hunting, trapping, game shooting, camping, campfire, bonfire, picnicking and
related activities at any time on the Skokie River nature preserve trail.
E.   Damage To Vegetative Life: It shall be unlawful to cut, dig up, remove, or
in any way damage or destroy plant or other vegetative life on the Skokie River
nature preserve trail. This subsection shall not apply to authorized damage or
destruction that occurs as part of the construction, maintenance, or management
of the Skokie River nature preserve trail pursuant to a license agreement with
the village.
F.   Burning: It shall be unlawful to burn landscape waste or related material
or to conduct any activity involving fire or burning for any purpose at any
time on the Skokie River nature preserve trail; provided, however, that the
village administrator may authorize such activities, but only in accordance
with the standards and guidelines adopted by the board of trustees, as such
standards and guidelines may, from time to time, be amended. Unless and until
such standards and guidelines have been adopted by the board of trustees, such
activities shall not be permitted at any time.
G.   Hazardous Substances: It shall be unlawful to use hazardous substances at
any time on the Skokie River nature preserve trail. For purposes of this
subsection, the term "hazardous substances" shall mean and include petroleum
products and their constituents and substances defined as "regulated
substances", "hazardous waste", "hazardous materials", "toxic substances",
"pollutants", "toxic pollutants", "herbicides", "fungicides", "rodenticides",
"insecticides", "contaminants", or "pesticides" in any federal, state or local
law or regulation pertaining to the public health or environment. This
subsection shall not apply to hazardous substances used as part of the
authorized construction, maintenance or management of the Skokie River nature
preserve trail pursuant to a license agreement with the village.
H.   Established Walking Paths: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave
the established walking paths of the Skokie River nature preserve trail at any
time and for any reason except as expressly authorized herein. This subsection
shall not apply to: 1) emergency situations; 2) construction, maintenance or
landscape management activities undertaken by an authorized licensee of the
village, or its agent, pursuant to a license agreement with the village; or 3)
members of guided tours conducted by an authorized licensee of the village, or
its agent, pursuant to a license agreement with the village. (Ord. 95-08, 3-27-
1995)
I.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this section shall be a fine not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for any one offense. (Ord. 95-08, 3-27-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Special Event Permit Required
7-5-3: Special Event Permit Application
7-5-4: Review Of Special Event Permit Application
7-5-5: Insurance
7-5-6: Special Event Deposit And Payment Of Costs
7-5-7: Denial Of Special Event Permit
7-5-8: Resolution Of Conflicting Applications
7-5-9: Non-transferability And Term Of Special Event Permit
7-5-10: Maintenance Of Public Property And Payment Of Costs
7-5-11: Revocation Of Special Event Permits
7-5-12: Responsibility Of Permittee And Event Manager
7-5-13: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this Chapter, they shall,
for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this Section, except when the context otherwise indicates:
 
                          The natural person responsible on behalf of the
EVENT MANAGER:            sponsoring organization for managing the special
                          event.
PERMITTEE:                Any person who has been issued a special event permit
                          or a block party permit under this Chapter.
PERSON:                   Any individual, partnership, association,
                          organization, or corporation.
                          Services provided by the Village during a special
                          event or a block party, which services may include
SPECIAL VILLAGE SERVICES: but are not limited to any of the following: street
                          closures; provision of barricades, garbage cans,
                          stages, or special no parking signs; special
                          electrical services; or special police protection.
                          A planned company of persons collected together on
                          Village property or rights-of-way, or any organized
                          march, parade, or procession of persons upon a right-
                          of-way, which is reasonably anticipated to interfere
                          with or impede the flow of pedestrian traffic; or a
SPECIAL EVENT:            temporary aggregation of attractions or gathering,
                          including but not limited to public entertainment,
                          food and beverage service facilities, sales of
                          souvenirs or other merchandise, block parties, or
                          similar attractions, that is conducted on any public
                          property under the ownership or control of the
                          Village.
                          Any partnership, association, organization or
SPONSORING ORGANIZATION:  corporation, including the Village, which is the
                          permittee conducting, or the proposed permittee
                          desiring to conduct, a special event.
                          Any temporary structure erected in connection with a
SUPPORT STRUCTURES:       special event or block party, including but not
                          limited to stages, scaffolding, bleachers, tents,
                          stands and/or booths. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
 
7-5-2: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a special event unless a permit
therefor has been issued pursuant to this chapter. When issued, such permit
shall allow the person or sponsoring organization to conduct a special event
with use of special Village services and/or exclusive use of all or a portion
of real property owned or controlled by the Village, if necessary. This Section
shall not apply to Village sponsored or hosted events. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-
2020)
7-5-3: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION:
A.   Not less than fourteen (14) days, or as soon as practicable if the special
event is of a spontaneous or urgent nature, nor more than one (1) year prior to
the date the special event is scheduled to begin, the event manager shall make
a written application for a special event permit to the Village Administrator
on application forms provided by the Village. The application shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable permit application fee in the amount set forth
by the Village Board and shall include the following information:
1.   The name, address and telephone number of the proposed permittee who will
be conducting the special event.
2.   The name and telephone number of an authorized and responsible agent of
the permittee who shall be designated by the permittee as the event manager;
3.   A description of the special event that will be conducted;
4.   The dates, times, and location of the special event, including the times
necessary for any assembly and/or dismantling of support structures;
5.   The estimated number of people who are expected to attend the special
event and a description of what safety measures will be taken in the event more
people that attend than expected;
6.   Whether food and/or alcoholic beverages will be sold or available during
the special event;
7.   A statement identifying the special village services, if any, the
applicant will request that the Village provide;
8.   Proposed traffic and pedestrian circulation plan;
9.   In the event the applicant intends to use speakers, amplifiers,
microphones, or any other device that increases or amplifies sound, a
description of the equipment proposed to be used and how and when it will be
used;
10.   Number and location of portable sanitation facilities, when appropriate,
and other equipment or services necessary to conduct the special event, giving
due regard for participant and public health and safety and the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act;
11.   The number of persons proposed or required to monitor or facilitate the
special event, including provisions for spectator or participant control and
direction;
12.   Provisions for first aid and emergency medical services, based on risk
factors attendant to the special event;
13.   If the proposed permittee intends to erect signs during the special
event, a sign plan containing, without limitation, the following information:
a.   A depiction of the location or locations at which each proposed special
event sign will be erected;
b.   Drawings or photographs of each proposed special event sign, which must
include the dimensions of each sign and the proposed method of erection,
construction, or attachment to a building or structure, as the case may be, of
each sign;
c.   If any proposed special event signs will be attached to or erected on any
private property, written consent of the owner or such property; and
d.   The dates on which the proposed special event signs will be erected or
constructed and removed.
14.   Such other information as may be reasonably necessary to determine if the
special event will comply with all requirements of federal, state, and local
laws, statutes, regulations, executive orders, and ordinances.
15.   A sworn affidavit that all information provided on the application is
complete and truthful.
B.   The Village Administrator shall have the authority to waive any of the
requirements set forth in subsection
7-5-3.A of this Code. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-4: REVIEW OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION:
A.   Upon receipt of an application for a special event permit, the Village
Administrator shall review the application and either grant or deny the
application within twenty one (21) days. The Village Administrator shall grant
the application if the Village Administrator determines:
1.   The applicant has complied with all of the requirements of this Code
unless such requirements have been waived by the Village Administrator;
2.   The proposed special event will not substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with traffic in the area;
3.   There are available at the time of the special event a sufficient number
of peace officers to police and protect lawful participants as well as those
looking on;
4.   The concentration of firefighters and police officers required at the
special event will not prevent proper fire and police protection or ambulance
service to the general public;
5.   The special event will not be conducted for an unlawful purpose or in a
manner that violates federal, state, and local laws, statutes, regulations,
executive orders, and ordinances;
6.   The special event will not subject the surrounding neighborhood to an
unreasonable degree of noise, littering or parking difficulties in light of the
character of the neighborhood;
7.   The special event will not conflict with another event in the same or
nearby location on a date reserved or scheduled by the Village;
8.   The special event will not need any other additional special Village
services that cannot be reasonably made available;
9.   The applicant has sufficient plans in place to appropriately manage the
special event if more individuals attempt to attend the special event than
anticipated, or its attendees do not comply with applicable federal, state, and
local laws, statutes, regulations, executive orders, and ordinances; and
10.   Any proposed special event signs will not create an undue hazard to
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, and will not threaten the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
B.   In granting any special event permit, the Village Administrator may
require the permittee to comply with conditions to ensure that the special
event is conducted in compliance with requirements set forth in subsection
7-5-4.A. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-5: INSURANCE:
Unless waived in writing by the Village Administrator, an applicant shall
provide and maintain at all times during the special event and for a period of
no less than six months after, at its sole cost and expense, comprehensive
general liability insurance with minimums of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for bodily injury; one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for property damage; and two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate. If liquor is served to attendees, the permittee
shall provide host liquor liability coverage; or, if the applicant is selling
alcohol, the permittee shall provide liquor liability ("dram shop") coverage in
the amount required by State law. The permittee shall cause the Village to be
named as an additional insured on the insurance policies described in this
Section on a primary and non-contributory basis. Such policies shall be in
form, and from companies, acceptable to the Village. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-6: SPECIAL EVENT DEPOSIT AND PAYMENT OF COSTS:
A.   In the event the application for a special event permit is approved, the
applicant may be required to post a cash deposit in an amount set by the
Village Administrator for the purposes to covering restoration costs for which
the applicant is responsible under Section
7-5-10 of this Chapter. No interest shall be payable on any special event
deposit.
B.   The applicant shall be liable for, and the special event deposit may be
used to, reimburse the Village's costs to restore public property in the event
that the applicant fails to comply with Section
7-5-10 of this Chapter. Following the special event, the Village Administrator
shall send an invoice to the event manager for payment to the Village of the
difference between any costs payable under this Section and the amount of the
posted special event deposit, if any; or shall promptly return any unused
portion of the special event deposit to the applicant without interest. (Ord.
2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-7: DENIAL OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
A.   Upon the Village Administrator's denial of an application for a special
event permit, the Village Administrator shall forward notification thereof to
the applicant.
B.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Village Administrator shall have
the right to appeal that decision to the Village Board, provided that such
appeal is in writing and is filed with the Village Clerk within ten (10) days
of the applicant's receipt of the notification of denial by the Village
Administrator.
C.   The Village Board shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal
and notice of such hearing shall be given in writing to the appellant by mail.
The appellant shall have the right to be represented at such hearing by
counsel. At a hearing conducted under this subsection all interested persons,
including the applicant, community residents and representatives of community
groups, shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The Village Board shall also
accept any relevant written testimony or documentation regarding the proposed
special event. The decision and order of the Village Board on such appeal shall
be final and conclusive. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-8: RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTING APPLICATIONS:
Preference among conflicting applications for special event permits shall be
given to the application filed earliest. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-9: NON-TRANSFERABILITY AND TERM OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
No special event permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be: (i)
transferred or assigned or used by any person other than the one (1) to whom it
is issued; (ii) used at any location other than the one (1) for which it is
issued; or (iii) used on a date other than one (1) for which it is issued.
(Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-10: MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PAYMENT OF COSTS:
During the conduct of the special event, the permittee shall keep any public
property being occupied clean and free from paper, debris, or refuse, and upon
termination of the permit by lapse of time or otherwise, the permittee shall
remove all materials and equipment and clean the public property. If any public
property has been damaged, the permittee shall repair and restore it to the
condition it was in prior to the special event. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
7-5-11: REVOCATION OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS:
The Village Administrator or Police Chief may at any time revoke a special
event permit if:
A.   If the operation of the special event is in violation of any applicable
provisions of this Code or any other applicable federal, state, and local laws,
statutes, regulations, executive orders, and ordinances, or if, in the judgment
of the Village Administrator or the Police Chief, such revocation is necessary
to preserve the health or safety of the public; or
B.   The application of the permittee contains any false, fraudulent or
misleading material statement.
When necessary to prevent an immediate threat to the health or safety of the
public, the Village Administrator or the Police Chief shall order the permittee
to cease immediately the operation of the special event. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-
2020)
7-5-12: RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMITTEE AND EVENT MANAGER:
The permittee and event manager are each and jointly responsible for taking all
necessary precautions and steps to ensure that a special event complies with
this Code and all applicable requirements of federal, state, and local laws,
statutes, regulations, executive orders, and ordinances. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-
2020)
7-5-13: PENALTY:
The violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day or part thereof on which a violation occurs or
continues or is permitted to occur or continue. Each day on or during which any
person violates any of the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 2020-14, 8-10-2020)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Water Division Of Public Works Department
8-1A-2: Permits
8-1A-3: Meters
8-1A-4: Village Powers
8-1A-5: Hydrants
8-1A-6: Separate Connections Required
8-1A-7: Sale Of Water By Park District Authorized
8-1A-8: Cisterns And Wells
8-1A-9: Prohibited Acts
8-1A-10: Violations; Discontinuing Service; Fees
8-1A-11: Penalty
8-1A-1: WATER DIVISION OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
The water division of the public works department shall be under the
supervision of the village administrator. (1988 Code § 5-1A-1-1)
8-1A-2: PERMITS:
A.   Water Use:
1.   Required: No person except a regularly appointed agent of the village
shall take water from any hydrant, plug, hose, pipe or fountain, except for use
in case of fire or emergency, or shall in any way use or take any water for
private use, drinking at public fountains excepted, unless such person has
first paid the village for the same and received a permit from the village.
(1988 Code § 5-1A-2-1)
2.   Fee: The fee for a water permit shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "construction/building fees". No person
except one duly authorized by the director of public works shall be permitted
under any circumstances to tap the village street main or insert stopcocks or
connections therein. The village authorities shall tap the street main and
furnish the corporation cock, curb cock, curb box and meter. The charge for
said tapping performed, and materials furnished by the village, shall be as set
out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "construction/building fees". (1988
Code § 5-1A-2-1; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Water Connection: Any person owning or occupying premises adjacent to the
water distribution system of the village and desiring water service shall sign
an application for such service in the form prescribed by the village, and no
connection shall be made with the water system of the village without a permit
having first been issued therefor by the village. No permits shall be issued
for the installation, repair or connection to water pipes unless the person
applying therefor shall be a duly bonded and licensed plumber. (1988 Code § 5-
1A-2-2)
8-1A-3: METERS:
A.   Required: All water furnished and sold by the village from the public
water system of the village shall be measured by water meters and paid for at
water rates as herein fixed and determined. With the exception of meters
replaced at village expense due to normal wear and tear 1 , water meters shall
be purchased from the village and installed and sealed, and thereafter kept in
repair, all at the expense of the water taker or property owner. All meters
shall be equipped with an operating outside reading service, unless the village
administrator or his/her designee determines otherwise. (Ord. 95-27, 8-14-1995)
B.   New Service: All new water service shall be metered. New services include,
but are not limited to, water service in new construction of all types. (1988
Code § 5-1A-3-2)
C.   Installation; Upkeep:
1.   Meter Connection Required: All water takers or parties desiring to use
water from the village water system shall be required to cause a meter of such
make as shall be approved by the village administrator to be connected with the
service pipe, furnishing the supply in such manner that all water so furnished
or supplied shall pass through said meter and be measured and registered.
2.   Location: The location of meters shall be determined by the director of
public works, or someone duly authorized by him, and shall be so placed as to
be easily accessible for the purpose of making repairs, inspection or taking
statements of the index thereof. (1988 Code § 5-1A-3-3)
3.   Obstructions; Turn Off For Violation; Fee: In case obstructions are so
placed that a meter is not easily accessible, the director of public works
shall notify the party controlling the same to remove the obstruction, and in
case of failure, refusal or neglect to do so within a reasonable time, to be
stated in the notice, the director shall turn off the supply, or instruct his
duly authorized representative so to do, and it shall not be turned on again
until the obstructions have been removed and the fee for turning on and off the
water set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", is
paid. (1988 Code § 5-1A-3-3; amd. 2009 Code)
D.   Right To Inspect; Inaccurate Meters:
1.   Meters Accessible: All meters and reading devices shall be installed by
the property owner under the supervision and direction of the director of
public works, or his duly authorized representative, and sealed by him, and so
placed and maintained as to be accessible to the director of public works, or
someone duly authorized by him, at all reasonable hours.
2.   Inaccuracy: If a meter at any time fails to accurately register and
measure the quantity of water used, the amount used shall be determined and
charges made therefor by the director of public works on the average quantity
registered and measured for a period similar in time and character when such
meter was accurately registering and measuring water. No deduction shall be
made on account of leakage after water has passed through a meter. (1988 Code §
5-1A-3-4)
E.   Repairs; Removal: No water meter shall be repaired, changed, altered,
disconnected or in any way disturbed except by an authorized representative of
the village; provided, however, that in the event of freezing, dangerous leak
or other emergency, a licensed plumber may, without first obtaining a permit,
remove such meter from the line, but in no case from the premises. Notice of
such removal shall be given by such plumber to the village within twenty four
(24) hours thereafter. (1988 Code § 5-1A-3-5)
F.   Meter Readings; Estimated Bills: Whenever access to any premises furnished
water by the village cannot be gained for the purpose of an annual meter
reading, a meter card will be left on the premises for the consumer to enter
his current actual readings of his water meter and return to the village. In
the event such meter card or a verbal report of the current reading is not
received by the village within five (5) days after the card is left on the
premises, an estimated bill, based upon usage for a corresponding period of the
previous year, will be billed to the consumer. (1988 Code § 5-1A-3-6)
G.   Separate Meters Required: Not more than one residence, house, business
building or one main edifice shall be permitted to measure water from one meter
except necessary appurtenances to such main building, and in no case shall two
(2) dwellings be allowed to be metered from one meter. (1988 Code § 5-1A-3-7)
H.   Use Of Additional Meters: Where more than one meter is used in supplying
water to one residence or house, not including, however, apartment or business
buildings, the water thereby supplied shall be measured through such meters as
a single unit, and only one minimum charge shall be made, and the balance of
water measured through such meters shall be billed as water used in excess of
the minimum charge as hereinafter provided. (1988 Code § 5-1A-3-8)
 
Notes
  1. Ordinance 95-27 shall be effective for all meters replaced due to normal
1 wear and tear since January 1, 1995, and following passage by the board of
  trustees and publication in pamphlet form in a manner required by law.
8-1A-4: VILLAGE POWERS:
A.   Director Of Public Works:
1.   The director of public works and his authorized agents shall have free
access Monday through Friday with appropriate authorization, between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., to all parts of every building
or premises in which water is delivered and consumed, to examine the pipes and
fixtures and to ascertain if there is any unnecessary waste of water, and to
examine and read meters. In the event of the refusal of the owner or occupant
of any such premises to allow such access and inspection, the village shall
have the right to seek a search warrant therefor.
2.   All work done on the street and contemplated by this chapter must be done
under the supervision of the director of public works, and subject to his
direction and approval.
B.   Suspend Or Limit Use Of Water: The village administrator shall have the
power to suspend or limit the use of water supplied by the village water system
as in his judgment the public exigency may require.
C.   Cross Connections: The village administrator, or his designee, shall have
the power to enforce the village cross connection regulations as set forth in
article E of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-14, 4-13-2009)
8-1A-5: HYDRANTS:
A.   Private Hydrants: No private hydrant shall be located on the sidewalk or
elsewhere beyond the limits of the lot of the party to whom the permit is
issued. No private hydrant in a lot shall be allowed to be used as a public
hydrant, unless by a special permit from the board of trustees.
B.   Placement On Street; Drinking Fountains: No hydrant, except public
drinking fountains, shall be placed within the limits of any street, and no
drinking fountain shall be erected for public use which has openings by which
it can be used as a source of domestic supply. (1988 Code § 5-1A-5)
8-1A-6: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
A consumer or water taker, who has installed a meter and who shall observe all
provisions required, may thereby use water for any purpose on his own premises,
but will not be permitted to supply any other person with water, and shall not
permit any other person to take water from his premises by any means whatever,
and shall in all things observe the provisions of this chapter. (1988 Code § 5-
1A-6)
8-1A-7: SALE OF WATER BY PARK DISTRICT AUTHORIZED:
A.   Compliance Waived: The provisions of this chapter, with regard to the sale
of village water and water connections, are hereby waived with respect to the
sale of water by the Lake Bluff park district only to the owners of property
commonly known as 119 and 121 Rockland Road, Lake Bluff, Illinois.
B.   Terms And Conditions Of Waiver: This waiver is subject to the following
specific terms and conditions:
1.   Separate Meters: Within sixty (60) days from the effective date hereof,
the Lake Bluff park district shall install separate water meters at both 119
and 121 Rockland Road in such locations as approved by the village
administrator.
2.   Purchase By Park District: Said meters and component parts thereof shall
be purchased from the village as in the case of other village water customers
and shall be paid for by the Lake Bluff park district.
3.   Maintenance By Park District; Village Inspection: Said meters shall be
maintained by the Lake Bluff park district and shall be subject to the same
inspection as water meters in the village.
4.   Connection To Village Lines When Available: Upon the installation of a
water service line on Rockland Road, within three hundred feet (300') of 119
and 121 Rockland Road, which can supply family residences with water service
therefrom, the owners of said 119 and 121 Rockland Road shall install service
lines thereto and be metered from said Rockland Road and shall disconnect
service from the Lake Bluff park district. (Ord. 89-37, 8-28-1989)
8-1A-8: CISTERNS AND WELLS:
A.   Use Prohibited For Human Consumption: No cistern or well within the limits
of the village shall be used for obtaining or storing water for human
consumption; provided further, that such restrictions shall not apply to any
well servicing any residential dwelling where such residential dwelling is
located one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') or more from any public
water line and which complies with all health and sanitation requirements of
governing bodies having jurisdiction. (1970 Code § 42.01)
B.   Metal Covers Required: A metal or other substantial cover shall be
provided and at all times kept on each cistern or well, which cover shall be of
sufficient weight or shall be fastened to the walls of the well or to the
ground, so as to prevent the same from being removed by children. (1970 Code §
42.02)
C.   Penalty: The owner or occupant of the premises maintaining such a cistern
or well as aforesaid in violation of this section shall be liable to a fine of
not more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1970 Code § 42.03; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1A-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
A.   Damaging Village Property: No person shall wilfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar or deface any machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the village, or any public or private hydrant or stopcock,
stopcock box, water supply or service pipe or any part thereof. (1988 Code § 5-
1A-7)
B.   Wasting Water: Hydrants, taps, hose, water closets, urinals, baths and
other fixtures will not be permitted to be kept running when not in actual use.
All faucets connected with service pipes must be of such pattern as may be
approved by the director of public works. (1988 Code § 5-1A-5)
8-1A-10: VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUING SERVICE; FEES:
For a violation of any of these provisions or any rules and regulations as the
board of trustees may hereafter adopt, the board of trustees reserves the right
to stop the supply of water without any preliminary notice, nor will it be
restored until all back bills, charges for water consumed at the rates set out
in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", of
this code, costs and damages shall be paid, together with an amount for the
expense of turning off the water and an amount for turning the water on again,
both amounts as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", and
upon a satisfactory understanding with the party that no further cause of
complaint shall arise. The board of trustees hereby reserves to itself the full
right, power and authority to cut off the supply of water at any time, without
incurring any liability or cause of action for damages of any kind, any permit
granted or regulation to the contrary notwithstanding. In case of a second
violation of the regulations by any person, the board of trustees may cause the
connection with the service pipe to be plugged. Should this be done, a charge
as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees",
will be made for reinserting it. (1988 Code § 5-1A-8; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1A-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where no other
penalty is provided, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which the violation occurs or continues. (1988 Code §
5-1A-9; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE B. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Rates And Charges Established
8-1B-2: Deposit Requirements
8-1B-3: Quarterly Bills; Payment Date
8-1B-4: Responsibility Of Property Owner For Charges
8-1B-5: Failure To Pay Bills
8-1B-6: Lien Provisions
8-1B-1: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
A.   Separate Water Service And Sanitary And Storm Sewer Maintenance And
Collection Service Rates: The rates at which: 1) water service; and 2) sanitary
and storm sewer maintenance and collection service will be sold and furnished
to consumers by the village shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees". For
the purposes of this article, all references to "water" and "water service"
shall be deemed to include "sanitary and storm sewer maintenance and
collection" and "sanitary and storm sewer maintenance and collection service",
respectively. (Ord. 93-12, 7-12-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
B.   Rates Not Provided; Assessment By Administrator: Water supplied to any
place for which the rates are not provided by other rules shall be assessed by
the village administrator in accordance with guidelines established from time
to time by the board of trustees. (1988 Code § 5-1B-1)
8-1B-2: DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Amount Of Deposit: If any applicant for water service is not the legal or
equitable owner of the premises for which water service is requested, the
applicant shall, as a condition precedent, make a cash deposit in advance to
ensure payment of final bills, in an amount equal to the estimated maximum
quarterly bill of the applicant, as determined by the village treasurer after
giving consideration to the average consumption of similar consumers. (Ord.
2003-16, 11-24-2003)
B.   Apply To Delinquent Bill: If a consumer having made a cash deposit allows
a water bill to become delinquent, the deposit may be applied to liquidate the
bill, and water service may be shut off as provided in section
8-1A-10 of this chapter. Water service shall not be turned on again until the
deposit is restored to its original amount. If the deposit does not liquidate
the water bill, then water service shall not be restored until the balance of
the water bill is paid, the entire original deposit restored, and the fees as
set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", for
discontinuing and turning on the water service are paid. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-
2003; amd. 2009 Code)
C.   Receipt For Deposit: The village shall issue a receipt for each deposit
showing the date of deposit and the amount received. The receipt shall be
surrendered by the depositor upon application for the refund of the deposit and
shall not be transferable.
D.   Final Disposition Of Deposit: Each deposit made under the provisions of
this section shall be delivered to the village treasurer, or the treasurer's
designee, to be held in the water fund. Upon the discontinuance of a consumer's
water service, the deposit shall be refunded without interest, less any amounts
still due and owing the village for water service up to the time of
discontinuance.
E.   Additional Deposit: The village treasurer may require an additional
deposit in an amount up to the sum of two (2) average bills from any customer
that has been more than thirty (30) days' delinquent twice within a billing
year or from any customer that has filed for bankruptcy within seven (7) years
prior to the date of the most current water bill. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-2003)
8-1B-3: QUARTERLY BILLS; PAYMENT DATE:
A.   All water bills shall be computed on a quarterly basis and due and payable
on or before the due date shown on the bill, whether the bill is a quarterly
bill, or one for discontinuance of any service. Failure to receive a water bill
shall not relieve the owner, tenant, or occupant of liability under any of the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-2003)
B.   All bills must be paid promptly when due. (1988 Code § 5-1B-3)
8-1B-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER FOR CHARGES:
A.   Liability For Payment: Property owners shall be charged with and held
liable for all water bills, charges, and benefits accruing by reason of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-2003)
B.   Failure Of Occupant To Pay: Water bills, if not paid by the occupant of
the premises when due, shall then be paid by the owner of said premises. (1988
Code § 5-1B-4)
8-1B-5: FAILURE TO PAY BILLS:
A.   Notice; Appeal:
1.   Notice Of Delinquency: If any property owner or occupant fails or refuses
to pay a bill for water service forty five (45) days after the original billing
due date, the village treasurer, or the treasurer's designee, is hereby
authorized and directed to give written notice of the delinquency ("delinquency
notice") to the owner or occupant and the party or person shown on the books
and records of the water department to be responsible for the payment of the
bill for the relevant period. The delinquency notice shall be sent by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
2.   Discontinuance Of Service; Request For Hearing:
a.   The delinquency notice shall demand payment in full of all delinquent
amounts within fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice. All payments of
delinquent amounts shall be made by cash, credit card, or other certified
funds. The delinquency notice shall also state that the water service to the
premises in question shall be cut off automatically without further notice
unless payment is made in full within the fifteen (15) day period.
b.   If the customer disagrees with the delinquency notice, the customer shall
notify the village treasurer within five (5) days after the date of the
delinquency notice and request that the village treasurer review the disputed
water bills. The village treasurer shall have the power to rectify errors or to
confirm the delinquency. If confirmed in whole or in part, the water bill shall
be paid within five (5) days after the date of the confirmation notice sent by
the village treasurer ("confirmation notice"). The confirmation notice shall
advise the customer of his or her right to appeal the decision of the village
treasurer and shall be sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested.
c.   Any customer may appeal the decision of the village treasurer by
requesting a hearing before the village administrator. All requests for
hearings must be in writing and made within the five (5) day period after the
date of the confirmation notice. The village shall notify of the time and place
for the hearing by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
d.   All hearings shall be conducted by the village administrator who shall
make written findings of fact and a written determination. The decision of the
village administrator shall be sent to the customer by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested.
e.   The customer shall pay all delinquent amounts within five (5) days after
the date of the village administrator's written decision, or water service
shall be terminated.
f.   The failure of a customer to accept registered or certified mail shall not
extend any of the time periods for notice or payment as provided in this
subsection.
3.   Appeal To Administrator: In the event of an appeal to the village
administrator, no action will be taken by the village unless and until the
appeal has been heard and acted upon by the village administrator.
4.   Costs Of Replacement Parts: Costs of any parts that must be replaced for
any reason whatsoever shall be paid by the delinquent party as a prerequisite
to the restoration of water service. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-2003)
5.   Water Turn On By Village Only: No plumber or other person shall turn on
the water supply to any building or premises from which the supply has been
shut off by order of the village administrator. (1988 Code § 5-1B-5-1)
B.   Discontinuing Service; Reinstatement: Should any consumer fail to pay a
delinquent bill after notice or decision as set forth in subsection A of this
section, water service may be discontinued until all overdue amounts,
penalties, and the expense of discontinuing the water service as provided for
in section
8-1A-10 of this chapter shall have been paid in full, together with costs, if
any, paid by the village and arising from the filing of a water lien claim, and
other costs, charges, and reasonable attorney fees incurred in the enforcement
of such water lien or collection of overdue amounts. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-2003)
C.   Additional Penalty: For each thirty (30) day period or part thereof after
the due date of a water bill, a penalty as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees",
shall be added to the amount due until the total amount is paid in full. This
penalty shall not be proratable for a portion of a thirty (30) day period.
Payment of this additional penalty shall be a condition precedent to
restoration of water service to the customer. (Ord. 2003-16, 11-24-2003; amd.
2009 Code)
8-1B-6: LIEN PROVISIONS:
A.   Continuing Lien: The village shall have a continuing lien for all
delinquent water bills, charges, or benefits upon the premises and real estate
upon or for which such the water is used or supplied. Every lien shall, upon
compliance with the conditions of this section, become and be prior to the
rights and interests of creditors, encumbrancers, purchasers, and other parties
in interest in the premises and real estate.
B.   Enforcement: Liens imposed pursuant to this section may be preserved and
enforced in the following manner: The village administrator shall, within six
(6) months after the due date of delinquent water bills, charges, or benefits,
file or cause to be filed with the recorder of deeds of Lake County a claim of
lien. The claim of lien shall be verified by affidavit of the village
administrator or other village officer with knowledge of the facts. The
affidavit shall consist of a brief statement of the facts of the claim, the
balance due after allowing all credits, and a legal or other sufficient
description of the premises in question. No lien shall be defeated to the
proper amount thereof because of an error on the part of the village, nor shall
any such lien be defeated upon proof that the water was used or contracted for
by a tenant or occupant of the premises other than the owner.
C.   File Petition Or Complaint: If water bills, charges, or benefits are not
paid when due as provided in this article, the village may file or cause to be
filed a petition or complaint in the circuit court of Lake County for a
foreclosing of the lien, or upon becoming a defendant in any pending suit
affecting the lands or property in question, by answer to the bill or petition
in the nature of an intervening petition, or by cross bill, and the village may
proceed in its corporate name to foreclose the lien in like manner and with
like effect as provided by the statutes of the state in foreclosure of
mortgages. The proceeds of the foreclosure sale, after deducting costs, shall
be applied to the payment of the water bills, charges, and penalties due.
Foreclosures shall be commenced, or answers or cross bills filed, within two
(2) years after the accrual of the water bills, charges, or benefits. Any
decree rendered in court may be enforced and collected as other decrees or
judgments rendered in the same court.
D.   Additional Means Of Collection: The remedy provided in this section is an
additional means to enforce payment of delinquent water bills, charges, or
benefits and shall not abridge or interfere with the right and power of the
village to enforce the collection of delinquent water bills, charges, or
benefits by an action at law or as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord.
2003-16, 11-24-2003)
ARTICLE C. CONSTRUCTION; INSTALLATIONS; CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Tap And Pipe Specifications
8-1C-2: Materials Specifications
8-1C-3: Corporation And Ground Cock Specifications
8-1C-4: Service Lines
8-1C-5: Water Using Fixture Specifications
8-1C-6: Flushing Sanitary Sewers
8-1C-7: Construction Contractors; Water Use Fees
8-1C-8: Return Of Permit After Connection
8-1C-9: Turning Water On; Fee
8-1C-10: Responsibilities Of Water Users And Owners
8-1C-1: TAP AND PIPE SPECIFICATIONS:
A.   Record Kept: The connection for the distributing pipe and the service pipe
laid shall be of the size specified in the permit and order. The director of
public works shall keep a complete record and map showing the exact location
and number and size of all taps inserted, and the length of the service pipe
laid, the tapper being hereby required to make immediate returns to the
director of public works on such details.
B.   Individual Taps; Pipe Dimensions: No more than one tap shall be made in
the water distribution system for each house, residence, apartment building,
business building or other private or public building. The size of the tap
shall be in proportion to the size of the water main tapped, and shall not
exceed customary size for the following service pipe dimensions:
Inside Diameter Of Water Main (Inches) Maximum Inside Diameter Of Service Pipe
                                       For Which Tap Is Made (Inches)
Inside Diameter Of Water Main (Inches) Maximum Inside Diameter Of Service Pipe
                                       For Which Tap Is Made (Inches)
4                                      1
6                                      11/4
8                                      11/2
10                                     11/2
12                                     2
14                                     2
16                                     21/2
 
(1988 Code § 5-1C-1)
8-1C-2: MATERIALS SPECIFICATIONS:
A.   Service Connections: No other material except copper, cast iron or brass
shall be used for service connections between the water main and the water
meter.
B.   Pipe Size: No smaller pipe than three-fourths inch (3/4") shall be laid
underground, and each material shall conform to the specifications as given in
subsection C of this section.
C.   Copper Pipe: No copper pipe smaller than three-fourths inch (3/4")
internal diameter shall be laid underground, and all copper pipe used for water
service connections shall be soft, annealed, seamless copper tubing or pipe
having the following properties and specifications:
1.   Chemical Properties: The copper shall be deoxidized with phosphorous and
shall have a purity of at least ninety nine and nine-tenths percent (99.9%) as
determined by electrolytic assay. Samples for chemical analysis shall consist
of clean drillings or millings taken from tubes selected for testing purposes.
2.   Bending Test: Full sections of annealed tube shall withstand being bent
cold through one hundred eighty degrees (180°) without cracking on the outside
of the bent portion, around a pin the diameter of which is one and one-half
(11/2) times the inside diameter of the pipe.
3.   Dimensions: Standard dimensions and weights of copper service tubes shall
be as shown below:
STANDARD WEIGHTS AND DIMENSIONS FOR COPPER SERVICE TUBE
 
Size (Inches) Weight, Pounds Per Foot Pressure Test
1             0.838                   780
11/4          1.04                    630
11/2          1.36                    580
2             2.06                    520
 
4.   Workmanship And Finish: Tubes shall be sound and of uniform thickness
throughout. They shall be free from cracks, seams, slivers, scale and other
surface defects. (1988 Code § 5-1C-2)
8-1C-3: CORPORATION AND GROUND COCK SPECIFICATIONS:
A corporation cock shall be placed at the main where a connection is made,
equal in quality to H. Mueller's figure G-10001 with wiped joint connection. A
ground key curb cock with solid tee handle equal to H. Mueller's figure G-10235
with wiped joint connection shall be placed eighteen inches (18") from the
sidewalk on the street side, and not less than five feet (5') below the surface
of the sidewalk. There shall be screwed to this curb cock a Minneapolis pattern
curb box equal in quality and style to H. Mueller's figure G-10300, one and
one-half inch (11/2") diameter, with extension overall from five feet (5') to
six feet (6'). (1988 Code § 5-1C-3)
8-1C-4: SERVICE LINES:
A.   Separate Line Required: In all cases, each and every consumer of water
shall have a separate and distinct private service line from the village main
to the meter. In the event of the subdivision of a tract of land already
provided with water service, the then existing service may not be extended to
provide service for the lots as subdivided. New and separate services with curb
cock shutoff must be provided for each consumer with a meter installed as
hereinabove provided to measure such separate service.
B.   Repair Or Replace: In the event it should be necessary to replace or
repair old service pipes, the requirements hereof as to new service shall apply
thereto.
C.   Location: The line of service pipe shall be at right angles to the main,
and the curb cock shall be located directly opposite the tap in the main.
D.   Trenches; Pipe Inspection: All trenches shall be dug and all connections
except tapping shall be made by a contractor or plumber. Service pipe installed
must be laid in a trench and left uncovered for inspection by the director of
public works. If pipe is covered before inspection is made, the contractor or
plumber shall completely expose such pipe for inspection at his own expense.
All excavations must be sufficient to ensure proper tapping on the upper
quarter of the street main. (1988 Code § 5-1C-4)
8-1C-5: WATER USING FIXTURE SPECIFICATIONS:
A.   Fixture Flow Rates: In all new construction and in all repair and/or
replacement of water using fixtures, only fixtures not exceeding the following
flow rates and/or water usage shall be installed. These ratings are based on a
pressure at the fixture of forty (40) to fifty (50) psi.
Fixture Gallons Per Flush
Fixture          Gallons Per Flush
Water closets:
Tank type        3.5
Flushometer type 3.0
Urinals:
Tank type        3.0
Flushometer type 3.0
Shower heads     3.0
 
B.   Lavatories For Public Use: In addition to the requirements in subsection A
of this section, in all new construction and in all repair and/or replacement
of fixtures, faucets of lavatories located in restrooms intended for public use
shall be of metering or self-closing type.
C.   Car Wash Installation: In all new construction and replacement of
fixtures, car wash installations shall be equipped with a recycling system on
the wash unit and the rinse cycle unit.
D.   Air Conditioning And Refrigeration Systems: All air conditioning or
industrial refrigeration systems using water as a part of the cooling system
shall be constructed, altered or remodeled as a closed system whereby the water
used therein will be recirculated. (1988 Code § 5-1C-5)
8-1C-6: FLUSHING SANITARY SEWERS:
Flushing of sanitary sewers with potable water shall be performed through the
use of a high velocity type sewer jet. (1988 Code § 5-1C-6)
8-1C-7: CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS; WATER USE FEES:
A charge shall be made for the usage of water during the period of
construction. Contractors shall install all temporary meters under the
supervision of the building commissioner or his duly authorized representative.
Costs for water used during construction shall be as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", for
all water used or consumed in any manner. (1988 Code § 5-1C-7; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1C-8: RETURN OF PERMIT AFTER CONNECTION:
Within forty eight (48) hours after completing any attachment or connection,
the tapper or plumber shall make a true return in writing, on the back of the
permit, showing in detail in what manner he has made the installation and done
the work authorized in said permit, and shall file the same with the village,
and the water shall not be turned on at any premises until such return is made
and filed as aforesaid. (1988 Code § 5-1C-8)
8-1C-9: TURNING WATER ON; FEE:
Water service will not be turned on into any house or private service pipe
except upon the order of the director of public works, or someone duly
authorized by him, nor until the said return has been made and the permit fee
and any charges for tapping or meters or parts shall have been paid. A charge
as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees",
shall be made for turning on water into any house or private service pipe.
(1988 Code § 5-1C-9; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1C-10: RESPONSIBILITIES OF WATER USERS AND OWNERS:
A.   Maintenance Of Pipe And Fixtures: Owners of premises using water must, at
their own expense, keep their service pipe and all fixtures connected
therewith, including the meter, in good repair and protected from frost, and
must prevent all unnecessary waste of water, or the water may be shut off.
Responsibility of the property owner begins at the water main tap by the
village.
B.   Negligence Of Owner Or Occupant: Where the negligence of the owner or
occupant of any property has caused the village expense in adjusting any water
service pipes, such expense shall be paid by the owner or occupant, as the case
may be, of such property upon which repair may have been made necessary by such
negligence aforesaid. (1988 Code § 5-1C-10)
ARTICLE D. OUTSIDE WATER USE RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
8-1D-1: Definitions
8-1D-2: Application Of Provisions
8-1D-3: Emergency Water Shortage
8-1D-4: Irrigation Restrictions
8-1D-5: Penalty
8-1D-1: DEFINITIONS:
IRRIGATION: The dispersion of water to prevent arid soil conditions and/or
promote landscape growth.
LANDSCAPE: Sodded and seeded lawns, gardens, trees, shrubs and other living
plants. (Ord. 90-8, 7-9-1990)
8-1D-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The mandatory water conservation regulations contained herein shall be
applicable to all water service customers of the village. (Ord. 90-8, 7-9-1990)
8-1D-3: EMERGENCY WATER SHORTAGE:
A.   Declaration: The declaration of a chronic water shortage situation will be
issued by the village president, or in the absence of the village president, by
the village administrator, to ensure maintenance of an adequate supply of water
to meet internal residential, business and firefighting requirements. No such
additional, immediate or total water use restrictions shall remain in force
beyond the next regular meeting of the board of trustees at which a quorum is
present, unless the emergency restrictions determined by the village president
or, in the absence of the village president, by such other person designated
herein, are ratified by said board of trustees at such meeting.
B.   Restrictions: Upon the declaration of a chronic shortage situation, the
following restrictions will be immediately imposed:
1.   Occupants with even numbered residences or other structures will be
permitted to water lawns and gardens, wash cars and vehicles and use water for
outside use only on even numbered days. Occupants with odd numbered residences
or other structures will be permitted to water lawns and gardens, wash cars and
vehicles and use water for outside use only on odd numbered days.
2.   By proclamation of the village president, or in the absence of the village
president, by the village administrator, following the initial declaration, all
lawn and garden use, washing of vehicles and outside usage of water may be
limited to specific hours or totally prohibited.
C.   Administration: The administration of this section shall be the
responsibility of the office of the village administrator.
D.   Major Industrial And Commercial Water Users: The office of the village
administrator will review water consumption records and identify the major
industrial and commercial water users. The latter will be consulted in advance,
and its assistance solicited for the development of alternative water
conservation measures, which may be voluntarily implemented during shortage
situations. When a shortage arises, these heavy water users will be required to
implement their previously prepared plans to such reasonably practical degree
as will not impose serious economic hardship.
E.   Municipal Conservation Programs: All village departments will be enjoined
to restrict activities calling for heavy water consumption. Included in this
category are the testing and clearing of fire hydrants, the cleaning of water
mains, the conduct of fire drills, street washings (except in emergencies),
sewer flushing and the watering of public areas.
F.   Variances: Variances from the regulatory standards of this section may be
granted in accordance with the requirements noted below. No variance shall be
granted unless the applicant for the variance can demonstrate that:
1.   An exceptional economic or other hardship would result without the
variance;
2.   The relief granted is the minimum necessary;
3.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or welfare or
the creation of a nuisance; and
4.   No additional public expense will result.
G.   Emergency Water Use Plan: The village shall establish an emergency water
use plan to be on file in the office of the village administrator for
imposition during such declared emergency water shortages and adopted by
reference. (Ord. 90-8, 7-9-1990)
8-1D-4: IRRIGATION RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary in section
8-1D-3 of this article, water may not be used for the irrigation of lawns or
for other landscape purposes from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M., during the period of May 15 to September 15, inclusive, of each
year. (Ord. 2017-2, 2-13-2017)
8-1D-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be fined in an
amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than the maximum
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation exists or continues to exist
shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 90-8, 7-9-1990; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE E. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-1E-1: Cross Connections Restricted
8-1E-2: Surveys And Investigations
8-1E-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-1E-4: Inspections
8-1E-5: Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service; Reconnect Fee
8-1E-6: Responsibilities Of Consumers
8-1E-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any "cross connection", defined, for the
purposes of this article, as a connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply, and also any
connection to the public water supply where this supply is directly or
indirectly connected to sewers, drains, reservoirs, or other plumbing
arrangements or fixtures or other devices which contain or may contain unsafe
liquids which may enter the village water supply or distribution system, unless
such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply or other connections, and the
method of connection and use of such supply, shall have been approved by the
director of public works, village administrator or his designee, or their
authorized agent, and the IEPA. (Ord. 2009-14, 4-13-2009)
8-1E-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
A.   It shall be the duty of the village administrator or his designee to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, residential
and other properties served by the public water supply to determine whether
actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys
and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be
conducted and repeated as often as the village administrator or his designee
shall deem necessary but not less than every two (2) years. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
B.   The village administrator or his designee or assignees shall circulate a
cross connection control device survey to all consumers or water takers with a
potential risk of backflow or back pressure to the village potable water
supply. This survey shall be completed by the property owner or consumer at the
premises served and returned to the village administrator or his designee
within thirty (30) days of the date of the letter. Failure to submit a
completed survey will subject the property owner or consumer to the penalties
outlined in this article.
C.   The consumer or water taker, if ordered by the village administrator or
his designee or assignees, shall procure the services of an approved cross
connection control device inspector (CCCDI) for the inspection of the presence
or absence of cross connection control devices within the consumer's premises,
and the consumer or water taker shall be responsible for all costs related
thereto.
D.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer or taker to arrange
periodic (not any longer than every 2 years) surveys of water use practices on
the premises to determine whether or not there are actual or potential cross
connections to the water system through which contaminants or pollutants could
backflow into the private water service or the public potable water system. All
cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must be conducted in
accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3. (Ord. 2009-14, 4-13-2009)
8-1E-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative
code 890, IEPA regulations, 35 Illinois administrative code 680, or in the
judgment of the village administrator or his designee, installation of a
backflow prevention device on a connection to the public water supply system
used by a consumer or water taker is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the director of public works, village administrator or his
designee, or their authorized agent, will give notice to the consumer or water
taker to immediately install a backflow prevention device approved by the
director of public works, village administrator or his designee, or their
authorized agent. The consumer or water taker shall, at his own expense,
install such an approved backflow prevention device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, the Illinois
environmental protection agency (IEPA) and all applicable village codes and
regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
upon installation and as required by the Illinois plumbing code, IEPA, backflow
prevention device manufacturer recommendations and all applicable village
regulations, but in no event less frequently than once per calendar year. It is
the responsibility of the water consumer or water taker to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
A.   Cross connections are removed or approved cross connection control devices
are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
B.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and specifications.
C.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually (or as directed by the village, IEPA or
manufacturer) by a person certified by the IEPA as a cross connection control
device inspector. The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical
testing in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and specifications.
D.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service
line to a consumer's water system including, but not limited to, situations
where the following conditions exist:
1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply unless such auxiliary supply is
accepted as an additional source by the village administrator or his designee.
2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall include premises
having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters originating from
the public water supply system which are no longer under the sanitary control
of the village.
3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of the
village administrator or his designee or a cross connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or that have intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to make a complete cross connection survey.
4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being established
or reestablished.
E.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77
Illinois administrative code 890, and the IEPA regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 653. This shall include all fire sprinkler systems. In
addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's or water taker's water system serving, without
limitation, the following types of facilities unless the village administrator
or his designee determines that no actual potential hazard to the public water
supply system exist:
1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
2.   Laboratories.
3.   Piers, docks, and waterfront facilities.
4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater pumping
stations.
5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
6.   Chemical plants.
7.   Metal plating industries.
8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
10.   Car washes.
11.   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
F.   The type of protection required under subsections D1, D2 and D3 of this
section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
1.   An approved, fixed, proper air gap separation shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
2.   An approved, fixed, proper air gap separation or an approved, reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
3.   An approved, fixed, proper air gap separation or an approved, reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or double check valve assembly
shall be installed where a public water supply system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
G.   The type of protection required under subsection D4 of this section shall
be an approved, fixed proper air gap separation or an approved, reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device.
H.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply under the
following conditions:
1.   When the fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or other
chemicals;
2.   When water is pumped into the system from another source;
3.   When water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source;
4.   When water can be pumped into the fire safety system from another source;
or
5.   When there is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
fire safety system.
I.   Any addition or alteration to an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be
in accordance with the appropriate design standard for the system. If the
addition of a backflow prevention device decreases the water pressure below the
required pressure for the fire safety system, additional measures shall be
taken in each such case to restore the pressure to the operating level required
by mechanical means (i.e., a fire pump).
J.   Before a backflow prevention device is installed retroactively on a fire
sprinkler system, a thorough hydraulic analysis shall be performed including,
but not limited to, the following information:
1.   Revised hydraulic calculations for hydraulically calculated systems in
accordance with NFPA 13, 13R, or 13D. Submitted calculations should include the
pressure loss anticipated through the backflow prevention device;
2.   Revised sprinkler system demand for pipe schedule systems;
3.   Current water supply data based on a water supply test (current within 2
years), including a comparison assuring that any additional pipe lengths or
fittings necessary to accommodate the proper installation of the backflow
prevention device will not increase the sprinkler system demand beyond the
available water supply; and
4.   All necessary modifications contributing to the additional friction loss.
All of the aforementioned items (subsections J1, J2, J3 and J4 of this section)
including, but not limited to, a manufacturer's data sheet for the device that
indicates the expected pressure loss, must be submitted to the village
administrator or his designee prior to the installation of the backflow
prevention assembly.
K.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this section shall
be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the
University of Southern California, American Water Works Association, American
Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards Institute, or
certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in compliance with
applicable industry standards.
L.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with 35
Illinois administrative code 653.802 and only as specified by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, or applicable industry specifications. Maintenance, as recommended
by the manufacturer of the device, shall be performed. The manufacturer's
maintenance manual shall be available on site.
M.   Where a booster has been installed on the service line or within any
premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff device
designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service line on
the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less. It shall be the
duty of the water taker or consumer to maintain the low pressure cutoff device
in proper working order and to certify to the village administrator or his
designee, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
N.   Fire pumps shall be installed per NFPA 20, "Standard For The Installation
Of Centrifugal Fire Pumps", and all applicable village and state of Illinois
codes and regulations. (Ord. 2009-14, 4-13-2009)
8-1E-4: INSPECTIONS:
The village administrator or his designee shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village for the purpose of conducting an
inspection to verify: a) the presence or absence of cross connections; and b)
any information submitted by the customer regarding such inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
village administrator or his designee or authorized agent any information which
he may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal to provide such information, when demanded, shall, within
the discretion of the village administrator or his designee or authorized
agent, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided
in this article. (Ord. 2009-14, 4-13-2009)
8-1E-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECT FEE:
The village administrator or his designee is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
article is known to exist and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination to the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this article and until a reconnection fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", is
paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected
when the village administrator or his designee or authorized agent is assured
that the imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply; provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the village
administrator or his designee or authorized agent, or the IEPA, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply. Written notification shall follow such action within a
reasonable time period. Neither the village, the village administrator or his
designee, nor its or his agents or assigns, shall be liable to any consumer or
water taker for injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this article, whether or not said termination was with or without notice. (Ord.
2009-14, 4-13-2009; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1E-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSUMERS:
A.   Inspections, Tests, Maintenance And Repairs:
1.   It shall be the duty of the consumer or water taker, at any premises on
which backflow prevention devices required by this article and regulations are
installed, to have inspections, tests, maintenance, and repairs made in
accordance with the schedules noted in this subsection. Each device shall be
tested at the time of installation and annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer or required by a regulatory agency.
2.   A copy of all testing reports must be submitted to the village
administrator or his designee within thirty (30) working days of the
installation. The test results for recertification must be submitted to the
village administrator or his designee within thirty (30) working days of the
renewal date. The date and time of the test, name and license number of cross
connection control device inspector, and the test results must be listed on
each report.
3.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the time of
installation and annually thereafter, and required service performed within
thirty (30) days.
4.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested
at the time of installation and annually or more frequently if recommended by
the manufacturer or regulatory agency, and required service shall be performed
within five (5) days.
5.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been certified by the IEPA
as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in writing
(CCCDI).
6.   Records submitted to the village with respect to the water supply shall be
available for inspection by IEPA personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4.
7.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most recent
test, name of the CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
8.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this article are found to
be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the consumer
without delay.
9.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
village administrator or his designee.
10.   A maintenance log shall be kept by the owner or water taker/consumer and
shall include:
a.   Date of each test.
b.   Name and CCCDI license number of person(s) performing the test.
c.   Test results.
d.   Repairs or servicing required.
e.   Repairs and date completed.
f.   Service performed and date completed.
B.   Cleanup Costs: The consumer or water taker responsible for back siphoned
or back pressured material or contamination through backflow, if contamination
of the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross connection
or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which
has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of cleanup of the public water supply
system. (Ord. 2009-14, 4-13-2009)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose
8-2-2:   Sanitary Sewers
8-2-2-1: Use Of Public Sewer Required; Exception
8-2-2-2: Toilet Facilities Required
8-2-2-3: Permit Requirements
8-2-2-4: Connection Permit Fee
8-2-2-5: Plans And Specifications
8-2-2-6: Inspections
8-2-2-7: Testing
8-2-2-8: Separate Connections Required
8-2-2-9: Cross Connections
8-2-2-10: Prohibited Discharges
8-2-2-11: Uncovering Sewers
8-2-2-12: Penalty
8-2-3:   Stormwater Utility Fee
8-2-3-1: Definitions
8-2-3-2: Legislative Findings; Policy And Purpose
8-2-3-3: Rules And Regulations
8-2-3-4: Charges For Stormwater System Service
8-2-3-5: Stormwater Utility Fee
8-2-3-6: Billing Procedures
8-2-3-7: Requests For Exclusions From The Stormwater Utility Fee
8-2-3-8: Stormwater Sewer Enterprise Fund
8-2-3-9: Exemptions From Stormwater Utility Fee
8-2-3-10: Credits
8-2-3-11: Incentives
8-2-4:   Enforcement
8-2-4-1: Application Of Payments
8-2-4-2: Liability For Payment
8-2-4-3: Penalty For Nonpayment
8-2-4-4: Interruption Of Service
8-2-4-5: Lien Provisions
8-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the Village of Lake Bluff through the regulation of
the Village water works and sewage works and, to the maximum extent practical,
and to comply with the requirements of state and Federal law. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-
25-2023)
8-2-2: SANITARY SEWERS:
8-2-2-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
A.   Use Required: No person occupying, owning or having any interest in any
lot, grounds, building, dwelling, store, house, shed, barn or any other
structure in the village shall discharge sewage from any such premises into or
upon any highway, stream, the beach of Lake Michigan, watercourse or public
place. All sanitary sewage shall be discharged into a public sewer installed
under the authority and approval of the village.
B.   Septic Tanks Excepted:
   1.   Condition For Use Of Septic Tanks: With respect to any premises having
an area of not less than two and one-half (21/2) acres, and located more than
one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any public sewer, the
board of trustees, upon application of any person, may approve the installation
of a septic tank. Any such septic tank installation shall comply with the state
statutes and the rules and regulations of the county environmental protection
agency.
   2.   Permit Required; Fee: Upon approval by the board of trustees of the
installation of a septic tank system, an application shall be required for a
permit for such construction in accordance with the provisions contained in the
plumbing regulations,
 title 9, chapter 6 of this code. A fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "construction/building fees", shall be
paid for each permit for the installation, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or repair of a septic tank system, or any portion thereof. (Ord.
2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-2: TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED:
A.   Except as otherwise prescribed by law or ordinance, in every existing
building not already supplied and in every building hereafter erected where
there is human occupancy or employment, there shall be at least one water
closet, properly connected with the drainage system.
B.   In dwellings and multi-family houses, there shall be at least one separate
water closet within each dwelling unit.
C.   For places of assembly, there shall be one water closet for every one
hundred (100) persons or fraction thereof.
D.   In schools and other educational buildings, there shall be at least one
water closet for every twenty five (25) persons.
E.   In every other building, there shall be at least one water closet for
every fifteen (15) occupants.
F.   In buildings where more than one water closet is required, except in
dwellings and multi-family houses, separate water closets and toilet rooms
shall be provided for the sexes. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Requirements: A permit for the drainage or sewerage of any building,
public or private, or for alterations in existing systems of drainage or
sewerage, shall be obtained from the building commissioner before any work may
commence, whether new work or repair work. Such permit shall be good for one
year from the date of issue. If work is not completed within that time, the
permit shall be returned and a new permit issued. Permits for connecting with a
sewer or tapping same shall be obtained from the building commissioner. All
permits shall be issued in duplicate and numbered consecutively and dated. One
copy shall be kept and filed in the office of the village clerk; provided,
however, no permit shall be issued for plumbing work to be done by any master
or journeyman plumber unless said plumber has a certificate from a duly
qualified board of examiners, and is licensed by the village.
B.   Penalty: No person shall make or cause to be made any connection with a
house connection branch of a public sewer in the village, except under a
written permit for the work, signed by the building commissioner or his duly
authorized agent, and any person violating this section shall be fined as
provided in section
8-2-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-4: CONNECTION PERMIT FEE:
The village clerk shall collect, for the use of the village, the sum as set out
in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "user charges and connection fees", for
each permit to connect with the main sewer line of the sanitary sewerage system
of the village. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-5: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Before the construction, reconstruction, alteration or repair of any portion of
any plumbing, sewage or drainage system is begun, where there are plans and
specifications of the work proposed to be done, they shall be submitted to the
building commissioner by the owner or agent of the property, and where there
are none, a description in writing shall be given. Such plans, specifications
and description, after examination, shall be marked "approved", if found to
conform to this chapter, or if not found to so conform, shall be marked
"rejected" and returned to the owner. Applications for changes in a permit must
be made in writing and the original permit returned for correction or the
issuing of a new permit. No material deviation from the permit and approved
plans shall be allowed. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-6: INSPECTIONS:
The building inspector shall make or cause to be made, at least two (2)
inspections on work in process of construction, and give a certificate of
inspection when found to be in accordance with section
9-4-1 of this code, as follows: first, vent and waste pipes; second, when
fixtures are set, and when called upon he shall also make tests for leaks.
After each inspection, if it shall be found satisfactory, a sticker shall be
placed on the soil pipe showing date and approval of last inspection. The
following repairs and extensions to any part of the plumbing and drainage
system in any building shall also be reported for inspection: a) where there is
any change in any sewer connected pipe; and b) where such change is on the
sewer side of the trap. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-7: TESTING:
When a drainage system is completed and ready for the connection of fixtures,
it shall be tested by closing all openings and filling with water to the top.
When the system will stand this test without showing any leaks, the building
commissioner shall be notified, and he shall inspect the same, and if
satisfactory, give the plumber a certificate of inspection. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-
25-2023)
8-2-2-8: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
Every house or premises must have a direct and separate connection with the
main sewer in the street or alley. The connection of two (2) or more houses or
premises with the sewers from one pipe will not be permitted. Responsibility of
the property owner begins at the connection of the sewer main in the street to
the lateral sewer servicing the owner's property. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-9: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
A.   Prohibited: No cross connections of any nature or description shall be
permitted between the sanitary system and the storm sewerage system of any
house, premises or building in the village, nor shall any sump pump or drainage
system of any nature be cross connected with or between said sanitary and storm
systems.
B.   Inspections: For the purposes of sections 8-2-8 and
8-2-10 of this chapter, the building commissioner, or such personnel as
designated by the village administrator, shall make such inspections and tests
at such times as are deemed proper to ascertain compliance with the provisions
of this section and the plumbing regulations,
title 9, chapter 6 of this code.
C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be liable to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first such offense, and to a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-10: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
A.   Sanitary Sewers: Sump pumps, leaders or downspouts from roofs, overflows
from cisterns or catch basins for the collection of storm or rain water, or
other device receiving, collecting or discharging rain or surface water, shall
not be connected with sanitary sewers.
B.   Stormwater Drainage System:
   1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings set forth in this subsection:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater drainage systems. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge and wastewater disposal, and drainage from
raw materials storage areas.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to an NPDES construction site
activities permit. These include construction projects resulting in a land
disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited
to, clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
stormwater drainage system, except as exempted in subsection B6 of this
section.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Either of the following:
   a.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the stormwater drainage system, including,
but not limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water, to enter the stormwater
drainage system and any connections to the stormwater drainage system from
indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had
been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by the village; or
   b.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the stormwater drainage system that has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records, and approved by the village.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to an NPDES industrial stormwater
permit as defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of stormwater drainage
facilities, including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal
streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels and storm
drains, owned and operated by the village and used for collecting or conveying
stormwater, and that is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general area wide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the stormwater drainage system that
is not composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, solvents, oil and other
automotive fluids, nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordnances,
accumulations that may cause or contribute to pollution, floatables,
pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous substances and wastes, sewage,
fecal coliform and pathogens, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes,
wastes and residues that result from construction activity, and noxious or
offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
resulting from any form of natural precipitation.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The facilities by which stormwater is collected or
conveyed, including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or altered
drainage channels, ravines, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, receiving waters, and
stormwater drainage systems to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   2.   Responsibility For Administration: The village shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this subsection.
   3.   Applicability: This subsection shall apply to all water entering the
stormwater drainage system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands
unless explicitly exempted by the village.
   4.   Severability: The provisions of this subsection are hereby declared to
be severable. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this
subsection or the application thereof to any person, establishment, or
circumstances shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other
provisions or application of this subsection.
   5.   Ultimate Responsibility: The standards set forth in this subsection and
promulgated pursuant to this subsection are minimum standards; therefore this
subsection does not intend, nor imply, that compliance by any person will
ensure that there will be no contamination or pollution of stormwater or
unauthorized discharge of pollutants to the stormwater drainage system or to
waters of the United States.
   6.   Discharge Prohibitions:
      a.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the United States any materials,
pollutants, or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards.
      b.   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the stormwater drainage system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subsection: waterline flushing, fire hydrant flushing,
discharges from potable water sources, landscape irrigation, lawn watering,
rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, diverted stream flows, natural riparian habitat and wetland flows,
springs, storm sewer cleaning water, street wash water from streets where
spills or leaks of pollutants or toxic or hazardous materials has not occurred
(unless the pollutants or toxic or hazardous materials have been removed),
foundation drains, footing drains, crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, noncommercial vehicle washing, routing external building washing
that does not use detergents, dechlorinated swimming pool discharges
(discharges must contain less than 1 part per million chlorine), firefighting
activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants or toxic or
hazardous materials.
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the village as being necessary
to protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the village prior to the time of the test.
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
environmental protection agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and all other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted by the village for the discharge to the stormwater drainage system.
      c.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the stormwater drainage system is prohibited. This prohibition
   expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the
past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or
practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection. A person is
considered to be in violation of this subsection if the person connects a line
conveying sewage or any other nonstormwater discharge to the MS4, or allows
such a connection to continue.
   7.   Suspension Of MS4 Access:
      a.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
village may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the village may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
      b.   Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subsection may have their MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The village will notify a violator of the proposed termination of
its MS4 access. The violator may petition the village for a reconsideration and
hearing.
      c.   Violation: A person violates this subsection B7 if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this subsection
without the prior written approval of the village.
   8.   Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges: Any person subject to
an NPDES construction site activities permit or NPDES industrial activities
permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Said person shall
submit to the village a copy of the notice of intent (NOI) that was provided to
the Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA). Additional proof of
compliance with an NPDES construction site activities permit or NPDES
industrial activities permit may be required, in a form acceptable to the
village, prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
   9.   Monitoring Of Discharges:
      a.   The village shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to regulation under this subsection as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this subsection. If a discharger has security
measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before
entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements
to allow access to representatives of the village.
      b.   Facility operators shall allow the village ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination, copying
of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      c.   The village shall have the right to set up on any premises such
devices as are necessary in the opinion of the village to conduct monitoring
and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      d.   The village has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      e.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the village and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      f.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the village access to a premises is
a violation of this subsection. A person who is the operator of a facility with
an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity
commits a violation of this subsection if the person denies the village
reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any
activity authorized or required by this subsection.
      g.   If the village has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and it is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this subsection, or that
there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and
sampling program designed to verify compliance with this subsection or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the village may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
   10.   Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices: The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal stormwater drainage system or waters of the United States
through the use of structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person
responsible for a property or premises which is, or may be, the source of an
illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense,
additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge
of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable,
shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs
shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary
for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
   11.   Watercourse Protection: Every person owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition,
the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within
or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard
to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   12.   Notification Of Spills: Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as
soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or any person
responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation, has information
of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may
result in illegal discharges or pollutants entering stormwater, the stormwater
drainage system, or waters of the United States, said person shall take all
necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such
release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, said person
shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of nonhazardous
materials, said person shall notify the village in person, by phone, or by
facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by
phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the village
within three (3) business days of the phone call or personal notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years.
   13.   Notice Of Violation:
      a.   Whenever the village finds that a person has violated a prohibition
or failed to meet a requirement of this subsection, the village may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require, without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      b.   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work may be performed by the village and the expense thereof
shall be charged to the violator.
   14.   Appeal Of Notice Of Violation: Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the village. The notice of appeal
must be received within fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice of
violation. Hearing on the appeal before the village administrator, shall take
place within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.
The decision of the village administrator shall be final.
   15.   Enforcement: If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the
requirements set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an
appeal, within thirty (30) days of the decision of the village administrator,
then the village reserves the right to enter upon the subject private property
and to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the village or its
designee to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above. The
village may extend the period for corrective action upon a showing of good
cause for extension of the corrective action period.
   16.   Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation: Within thirty (30) days after
abatement of the violation by the village, the owner of the property will be
notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property
owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment
within fifteen (15) days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner
as determined by the decision of the village or by the expiration of the time
in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment
against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount
of the assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation. The liability
shall be paid in not more than twelve (12) equal monthly payments. Interest at
the rate of prime plus two percent (2%) per annum shall be assessed on the
balance beginning on the first day following discovery of the violation.
   17.   Injunctive Relief: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this subsection. If
a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
subsection, the village may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
   18.   Compensatory Action: In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this subsection, the village may impose upon a
violator alternative compensatory actions including, but not limited to, storm
drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops and cleanup activities.
   19.   Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance: In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this subsection is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
   20.   Remedies Not Exclusive: The remedies listed in this subsection are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the village to seek cumulative
remedies. The village may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this subsection, including sampling and
monitoring, and other enforcement expenses. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-11: UNCOVERING SEWERS:
No person shall uncover the public sewer in the village for any purpose, or
make any connection therewith, or uncover any of the connecting branches
thereof, or open any manhole or flush tank in the village, except with the
consent of the director of public works and under his supervision, or shall do,
or cause to be done, any injury of any kind in any manner to any part of the
sewers of the village, or to the outlet pipe or to any of the appliances of
said sewers, and any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined as provided in section
8-2-12 of this chapter, and shall be further liable in a civil suit for damages
to the full amount of such injury. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-2-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter in any particular,
wherein no penalty has been hereinbefore prescribed, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
8-2-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Title, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CREDIT: A conditional reduction in the amount of a stormwater utility fee to an
individual property that meets the qualification standards established in this
Chapter and the Rules and Regulations of the Village of Lake Bluff Stormwater
System.
DEVELOPED LAND: A parcel within the corporate limits of the Village that has
been altered from its natural state by the addition of impervious area.
EQUIVALENT RUNOFF UNIT (ERU): An index to compare runoff generated by different
types and uses of parcels with different stormwater runoff characteristics. One
ERU is defined as the runoff generated by a typical single-family residential
parcel and shall equal 3,200 square feet of impervious area or any fraction
thereof.
IMPERVIOUS AREA: The area within a parcel that prevents or significantly
impedes the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Impervious area includes,
without limitation, buildings, roofed structures, sidewalks and walkways,
parking lots, patios, decks, swimming pools, roads, bridges, medians,
driveways, gravel areas, pavers, other paved areas, and other similar non-
porous areas, regardless of whether the materials used to construct the non-
porous area are marketed as pervious materials.
PARCEL: An area of land within the corporate limits of the Village that has
been established by a plat or other legal means and has been assigned a
Property Index Number (PIN) by the County of Lake, Illinois.
PREMISES: A lot or a part of a lot, a building or a part of a building, or any
parcel or tract of land whatever.
UNDEVELOPED PARCEL: A parcel of land that remains in its natural state with no
impervious area. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-2: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS; POLICY AND PURPOSE:
A.   Legislative findings. The Village Board of Trustees finds:
   1.   That all real property in the Village contributes to runoff and either
uses or benefits from the maintenance of the stormwater system;
   2.   That, in order to provide an effective and long-term approach to
stormwater management within the Village, it is necessary to provide an
adequate and stable revenue stream for the construction, maintenance, operation
and improvement of the Village stormwater system; and
   3.   That it is in the best interests of the health, safety and general
welfare of the Village, its residents and property owners, that the Village
stormwater system be operated as part of the combined utility and funded
through utility fees.
B.   Statement of policy.
   1.   It is the policy of the Village to provide a dedicated funding source
for the construction, maintenance, operation and improvement of the stormwater
system in the Village, so that the Village is able to proactively manage
stormwater for the benefit of all residents and owners of real property within
the Village.
   2.   It is the policy of the Village that, except as provided in this
chapter, the owner or owners of any real property in the Village that uses or
benefits from the Village's stormwater system be charged a stormwater utility
fee, whether or not the owner or parcel is exempt from taxation.
   3.   The purpose of this Division II is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the Village from damage to property and local
waterways from stormwater runoff and floods, through the construction and
operation of flood reduction and control facilities, and through water quality
management and floodplain management. It is also the purpose of this chapter to
provide an effective and long-term approach to stormwater management within the
Village by identifying and providing an adequate and stable funding source for
stormwater management. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Village Administrator or the Village Administrator's designee may adopt
such rules as may be necessary to give effect to and explain the provisions of
this Division II. The Village Engineer may make recommendations to the Village
Administrator regarding the content of the rules and regulations and shall
enforce the rules and regulations once they are adopted. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-
2023)
8-2-3-4: CHARGES FOR STORMWATER SYSTEM SERVICE:
A.   Establishing rates and fees. Effective July 1, 2023, the owner of any
parcel that uses, benefits from, or connects to the stormwater system will be
charged for such service in accordance with the rates, fees, and charges
established from time to time in the annual fee ordinance.
B.   Basis for rates and fees. The stormwater utility fee will be based on the
extent to which each parcel increases the need for stormwater management; the
amount of impervious surface area on each parcel; and the cost of operating,
maintaining, and improving the stormwater system. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-5: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
A.   Fee imposed. A stormwater utility fee is hereby imposed on the owner of
property in the Village. The stormwater utility fee consists of the sum of the
following:
   1.   Base fee. The base fee is the amount to be charged each month pursuant
to the formula set forth in section 8-2-20.B of this Code in order to produce
the amount of principal and interest on any outstanding stormwater system debt
that is due and payable during the fiscal year for which the base fee is
calculated.
   2.   Other fees. Such other rates, fees and charges that the Village Board
of Trustees determines are necessary to recover certain costs related to
operating, maintaining, and improving the stormwater system as set forth in the
annual fee ordinance.
B.   Fee formula. The base fee for all parcels in the Village will determined
by the zoning district of the parcel. The Village has determined the average
amount of ERUs on properties based on a sampling of properties in each
residential zoning district. Each parcel in a residential zoning district will
have its number of ERUs be equal to that of the average of sampled parcels in
its zoning district, rounded to the nearest 1/100 of an ERU. Each property in
the CBD, O&R, AP-1, L-1, L-2, S, R, and RIO districts will equal the measured
number of ERUs on the parcel, rounded to the nearest 1/100 of an ERU. The
formula is illustrated as follows:
   Parcel Fee = (ERU x Current Rate $)
   For premises comprised of multiple parcels with multiple Property Index
Numbers (PINs), the fee will equal the sum of the parcel fee for each parcel.
C.   Exception. Parcels with an ERU of less than 0.10 or less than 320 square
feet of impervious area. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-6: BILLING PROCEDURES:
The Finance Director shall issue all bills for stormwater utility fees.
A.   For users of the stormwater system that have an existing utility account
with the Village, the Finance Director may include the stormwater utility fee
on the same statement issued for such other utility services.
B.   The Finance Director may issue a separate bill to the owner of any parcel
that does not have an existing utility account with the Village. If the owner
of such parcel has not provided the Finance Director with a billing address,
then the Finance Department may mail the stormwater utility bill to the same
person who receives property tax bills for that parcel. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-
2023)
8-2-3-7: REQUESTS FOR EXCLUSIONS FROM THE STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
A.   Any property owner whose property does not use or benefit from the
Village's stormwater system may apply to the Village Engineer to be excluded
from the stormwater utility fee if:
   1.   None of the stormwater emanating from the owner's property discharges
into the Village's stormwater system, either directly or indirectly; and
   2.   The property does not benefit directly or indirectly from the Village's
stormwater system.
B.   Applications for an exclusion from the Village's stormwater utility fee
filed pursuant to this Section shall be filed in writing with the Village
Engineer, along with documentation for the assessment of the application, which
documentation shall include the following items:
   1.   Detailed specifications of any on-site cleaning of stormwater performed
prior to discharge into the Village stormwater utility system, along with
sufficient evidence that any on-site cleaning system is in good working order
and is maintained on a regular basis;
   2.   An ALTA survey of the relevant property prepared no more than one year
prior to the filing of the application for the exclusion;
   3.   A topographical survey of the property that includes runoff patterns
and directions of all stormwater emanating from the relevant property prepared
no more than one year prior to the filing of the application for the exclusion;
   4.   A report from a qualified and licensed engineer with detailed data
demonstrating:
      a.   The amount of stormwater that is retained on the relevant property;
      b.   The amount of stormwater that is discharged from the relevant
property and the locations to which the stormwater flows, including, without
limitation:
      (1)   The locations of any soils that may absorb runoff from the
property;
      (2)   Any bodies of water, creeks, streams, and tributaries into which
the stormwater flows; and
      (3)   Where those bodies of water, creeks, streams, and tributaries flow;
and
      c.   Whether any of the stormwater that may flow outside of the
boundaries of the Village may contribute to the saturation of the ground or
flooding that may have direct or indirect impacts on the amount of stormwater
that flows into the Village's stormwater system; and
   5.    Relevant photographic evidence in support of the application.
   The Village Engineer, in the Village Engineer's sole discretion, may waive
any of the above submittal requirements upon request.
C.   The Village Engineer must make a written determination within 30 days
after receipt of the property owner's completed written application for a
stormwater utility fee exclusion. If the Village Engineer denies the request,
the property owner may appeal that denial to the Village Administrator by
submitting a written appeal within 15 days after receipt of the written denial
from the Village Engineer. The Village Administrator must either grant or deny
the appeal, and in writing, within 30 days after receipt of the written appeal.
If the Village Administrator does not grant the appeal, the property owner may
appeal that decision to the Village Board of Trustees by submitting a written
appeal within 15 days after receipt of the written decision of the Village
Administrator. The Village Board of Trustees will then consider the appeal at a
regular meeting and may either grant, deny, or remand the appeal back to the
Village Engineer for further consideration.
D.   If an adjustment or correction is approved by the Village, the adjustment
will be incorporated into the stormwater utility fee calculation for the
specified parcel and will apply starting for the billing period during which
the application was received, and will apply until the property is altered in a
manner that results in the property's use of or benefit from the Village's
stormwater system. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-8: STORMWATER SEWER ENTERPRISE FUND:
A.   Revenues. All revenues from the stormwater utility fee shall be deposited
in the stormwater sewer enterprise fund and shall be used solely for the
operation, maintenance, expansion and rehabilitation of the stormwater
infrastructure as deemed appropriate by the Village Board of Trustees.
B.   Financial records. The Finance Director shall maintain and report on the
financial records of the stormwater utility in accordance with generally
accepted government accounting principles. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
Dedicated public rights-of-way, such as roadways, sidewalks and alleys, shall
not be subject to the stormwater utility fee because they are an integral part
of the Village's stormwater system. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-10: CREDITS:
A.   Direct Discharge Credit. Owners of properties that discharge all
stormwater runoff directly into an adjacent public waterway, or a drainage
system owned by someone other than the Village, provided that such stormwater
does not subsequently enter the Village's stormwater system either directly or
indirectly, are eligible for a direct discharge credit of 75 percent of the
stormwater utility fee that would otherwise be charged.
B.   Applications for a Direct Discharge Credit shall be filed in writing with
the Village Engineer or the Engineer's designee, along with documentation
required by the Rules and Regulations of the Village of Lake Bluff Stormwater
System for the assessment of the application, which documentation shall
include:
   1.   An ALTA survey of the relevant property prepared no more than one year
prior to the filing of the application for the credit;
   2.   A topographical survey of the property that includes runoff patterns
and directions of all stormwater emanating from the relevant property prepared
no more than one year prior to the filing of the application for the credit;
   3.   A report from a qualified and licensed engineer with detailed data
demonstrating:
      a.   The amount of stormwater that is discharged from the relevant
property and the locations to which the stormwater flows, including, without
limitation:
      (1)   The locations of any soils that may absorb runoff from the
property;
      (2)   Any bodies of water, creeks, streams, and tributaries into which
the stormwater flows; and
      (3)   Where those bodies of water, creeks, streams, and tributaries flow;
and
      b.    Whether any of the stormwater that may flow outside of the
boundaries of the Village may contribute to the saturation of the ground or
flooding that may have direct or indirect impacts on the amount of stormwater
that flows into the Village's stormwater system; and
   4.    Relevant photographic evidence in support of the application.
   The Village Engineer, in the Village Engineer's sole discretion, may waive
any of the above submittal requirements upon request.
C.   The Village Engineer shall review a credit application filed pursuant to
this section, and shall either grant or deny the requested credit or credits,
within 60 days after the date on which the application is received. The Village
Engineer shall only grant the requested credit or credits upon determining, in
the exercise of the Engineer's professional judgment that the applicant meets
the criteria for the credit, as defined in this section of this Code. If the
Village Engineer denies the request, in whole or in part, the property owner
may appeal that denial to the Village Administrator by submitting a written
appeal within 15 days after receipt of the written denial from the Village
Engineer. The Village Administrator's must either grant or deny the appeal, in
whole or in part, and in writing, within 30 days after receipt of the written
appeal. If the Village Administrator does not fully grant the appeal, the
property owner may appeal that decision to the Village Board of Trustees by
submitting a written appeal within 15 days after receipt of the written
decision of the Village Administrator. The Village Board of Trustees will then
consider the appeal at a regular meeting and may either grant, deny, or remand
the subject of the appeal back to the Village Engineer for further
consideration.
D.   If a property owner obtains a stormwater utility fee credit pursuant this
this Section, the Village Engineer may re-evaluate and rescind the credit if
the Village Engineer determines that, due to a result of work on or changes to
the property, regardless of whether the work or changes required a building
permit, the property no longer satisfies the requirements set forth in
subsection 8-2-25.A. Prior to rescinding the credit, the Village Engineer shall
offer the property owner the opportunity to be heard and present information
and documentation showing that the property still satisfies the requirements
set forth subsection 8-2-25.A.
E.   Application of credits; refund of overpayments. The Finance Director will
apply approved credits to the applicant's account, and will refund to the
applicant any overpayments made starting for the billing period during which
the application was received. If the amount overpaid is less than the full
amount of the customer's bill, the refund will be in the form of a credit
against the customer's next bill. If the amount overpaid equals or exceeds the
full amount of the customer's prior bill, then the overpayment will be refunded
directly to the customer within 30 days after the date the credit is approved.
(Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-3-11: INCENTIVES:
Incentives are available for any property in the Village that installs specific
types of sustainable stormwater management features. It should be noted that
both the credits and incentives programs are mutually exclusive and that
credits and incentives will not be awarded to the same property, with the
exception of the Private Detention Basin Maintenance Credit, which can be
earned in conjunction with either credits or incentives. Those properties that
are eligible for credits will have to choose between the two programs. The
table below summarizes the types of stormwater management features that qualify
for incentives and the maximum incentive amounts available, which shall be set
forth in the annual fee ordinance:
 
Incentive Type            Maximum Amount
Rain Garden               Set forth in the Annual Fee Ordinance
Runoff Rate Reduction     Set forth in the Annual Fee Ordinance
Runoff Volume Reduction   Set forth in the Annual Fee Ordinance
Runoff Water Quality      Set forth in the Annual Fee Ordinance
Total Incentive Available $1,000
Rain Barrel               Set forth in the Annual Fee Ordinance
 
The maximum lifetime incentive amount available per property for the
combination of rain gardens, rate reduction, volume reduction and water quality
items is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Once a property reaches one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) in incentive payments for these items, no more incentives
will be issued to the property regardless of the ownership. Rain barrels are
not subject to any maximum lifetime incentive amount. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
8-2-4-1: APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS:
If the customer receives a combined utility bill that includes a combination of
stormwater utility fees, sanitary sewer fees, and water consumption fees, and
the customer does not pay the total amount due on the statement, the payment
will be applied first to the stormwater utility fees, then to the sanitary
sewer fees, and then to the water consumption fees. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-4-2: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the water,
sanitary sewer, and stormwater system service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such premises and the service is furnished to
the premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the Village. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-4-3: PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT:
If the amount payable by any user for any two-month period is not paid on or
before the twenty-first day of the calendar month immediately succeeding the
month during which the two-month period ends, the amount payable for that two-
month period shall be increased by adding to the amount computed as
hereinbefore mentioned, a sum in the amount established by the annual fee
ordinance. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-4-4: INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
If the charges for services rendered under this article are not paid within
twenty-one (21) days after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled. (Ord. 2023-12, 4-25-2023)
8-2-4-5: LIEN PROVISIONS:
A.   Continuing Lien. The Village shall have a continuing lien for all
delinquent sewer and stormwater system service bills, charges, or fees upon the
premises and real estate upon or for which such the sewer and stormwater system
services are provided.
B.   Enforcement. Liens imposed pursuant to this Section may be preserved and
enforced in the following manner: The Village administrator shall, within six
months after the due date of delinquent sewer and stormwater system service
bills, charges, or fees, file or cause to be filed with the Recorder of Deeds
of Lake County a claim of lien. The claim of lien shall be verified by
affidavit of the Village Administrator or other Village officer with knowledge
of the facts. The affidavit shall consist of a brief statement of the facts of
the claim, the balance due after allowing all credits, and a legal or other
sufficient description of the premises in question. No lien shall be defeated
to the proper amount thereof because of an error on the part of the Village,
nor shall any such lien be defeated upon proof that the sewer or stormwater
system was used or contracted for by a tenant or occupant of the premises other
than the owner.
C.   File Petition or Complaint. If sewer and stormwater system service bills,
charges, or fees are not paid when due as provided in this Article, the Village
may file or cause to be filed a petition or complaint in the circuit court of
Lake County for a foreclosing of the lien, or upon becoming a defendant in any
pending suit affecting the lands or property in question, by answer to the bill
or petition in the nature of an intervening petition, or by cross bill, and the
Village may proceed in its corporate name to foreclose the lien in like manner
and with like effect as provided by the statutes of the state in foreclosure of
mortgages.
   The proceeds of the foreclosure sale, after deducting costs, shall be
applied to the payment of the sewer and stormwater bill, charges, fees, and
penalties due. Any decree rendered in court may be enforced and collected as
other decrees or judgments rendered in the same court.
D.   Additional Means Of Collection: The remedy provided in this section is an
additional means to enforce payment of delinquent water bills, charges, or
benefits and shall not abridge or interfere with the right and power of the
village to enforce the collection of delinquent water bills, charges, or
benefits by an action at law or as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord.
2023-12, 4-25-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Scope
9-1-3: Applicability
9-1-4: Existing Structures
9-1-5: Building Permits
9-1-6: Permit Application Review And Approval
9-1-7: Permit Conditions
9-1-8: Inspections
9-1-9: Time Limits
9-1-10: Cancellation Of Permit; Return Of Fees
9-1-11: Revocation Of Permit
9-1-12: Stop Work Orders
9-1-13: Certificates Of Occupancy
9-1-14: Unsafe Structures And Premises
9-1-15: Emergency Measures
9-1-16: Moving Buildings
9-1-17: Building Numbers And Addresses
9-1-18: Demolitions
9-1-19: Unlawful Acts
9-1-20: Notice Of Violations
9-1-21: Prosecution Of Violations
9-1-22: Penalties
9-1-23: Abatement Of Violations
9-1-24: Interpretations; Appeals
9-1-25: Fees
9-1-1: TITLE:
This Title will be known as the LAKE BLUFF BUILDING REGULATIONS. (Ord. 2021-13,
6-28-2021)
9-1-2: SCOPE:
The regulations of this Title control all matters concerning the construction,
alterations, addition, repair, replacement, removal, demolition, use,
occupancy, and maintenance of all buildings and structures, earthmoving and
grading, and these regulations apply to existing or proposed buildings and
structures. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
A.   General. These regulations cover all matters affecting or relating to
buildings and structures, as set forth in Section
9-1-2 of this chapter.
B.   Exemptions. These regulations will not be construed to require alterations
to lawfully constructed existing buildings or equipment, unless specific
provision is made to the contrary or unless the provision is expressly made
retroactive.
C.   Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner of the Village and his or
her deputies, as appointed pursuant to Sections
1-6I-1 and
1-6I-2 of this Code, are the officials responsible for implementing and
enforcing this Title. Any reference in this Title to the “building official”,
“director” or “code official” shall refer to and mean the Building Commissioner
or his or her deputies.
D.   Matters Not Provided For. Any requirement essential for structural, fire,
electrical, mechanical, or sanitary safety of an existing or proposed building
or structure, or essential for the safety of the occupants thereof, and which
is not specifically covered by this Title or other codes and ordinances of the
Village, will be determined by the Building Commissioner based on the exercise
of his or her best professional judgment in accordance with customary practice
in the field.
E.   Other Regulations. When these regulations are more restrictive than other
codes, ordinances, or regulations of the Village, this Title will apply and
control; but, in every case, the most rigid requirements of either this Title
or such other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations as may be in force
or legally adopted will apply and control whenever they may be in conflict.
(Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-4: EXISTING STRUCTURES:
A.   Unlawful Uses. Any use, building, or structure used or construed
unlawfully or that was in violation of any previous codes or regulations, prior
to the adoption of this Title, will be deemed a continuing violation and
subject to the penalties of this Title.
B.   Continuation Of Uses Consistent With The Village Zoning Regulations.
Consistent with the Village’s Zoning Regulations, set forth in Title 10, the
legal use and occupancy of any building or structure existing on the date of
adoption of this Title or for which building permits have been applied and
which meet all provisions of previous regulations may be continued without
change, except as may be specifically covered in this Title or as may be deemed
necessary by the Building Commissioner for the general safety and welfare of
the occupants and the public.
C.   Changes In Use. It is unlawful to make any change in the use or occupancy
of any building or structure or portion thereof which would subject it to any
provision of this Title without the approval of the Building Commissioner, who
will determine that such building or structure meets the intent of the
provisions of all codes and ordinances governing the new use or occupancy and
that such change does not result in any greater hazard to public safety or
welfare. When a change of use is contemplated in any part of an existing
building or structure, that part of the building or structure must be upgraded
to comply with this Title.
D.   Alterations Or Repairs. Alterations or repairs may be made to any building
or structure without requiring the entire building or existing structure to
comply with all the requirements of this Title provided such alterations or
repairs themselves conform to all applicable requirements for a new building or
structure and provided further that such alterations or repairs must not cause
an existing building or structure to become unsafe or unsanitary and must not
adversely affect the performance of the building or structure. All areas of a
building, new and existing, must comply with all fire and life safety
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-5: BUILDING PERMITS:
A.   Permit Required. It is unlawful to construct, enlarge, repair, alter, or
demolish a structure, or to change the occupancy of a building or structure in
a manner requiring greater strength, an altered exitway, or sanitary
provisions, or to change to another use, or to install or alter any equipment
for which provision is made in or the installation of which is regulated by
this Title, or to change the grade of earth by more than three inches, or to
alter the earth in a way that changes the drainage of water across a property
line, without first filing an application with the Building Commissioner in
writing and obtaining the required permits therefor; except that the permit
requirement may be waived, in the sole discretion of the Building Commissioner,
for work costing $200.00 or less.
B.   Form Of Application. Every application for a permit must be submitted on a
building permit application form supplied by the Village and must be
accompanied by such fees as prescribed in Section
1-12-3.
C.   By Whom Application Is Made. Every application for a permit must be made
by the owner in fee or lessee of the building or structure, or the agent of
either, or by the contractor or licensed engineer or architect employed by such
owner or lessee in connection with the work to be done. If the application is
made by a person other than the owner in fee, then the application must be
accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner, or the qualified person
making the application, stating that the proposed work is authorized by the
owner in fee and that the applicant is authorized to make such application. The
full names and addresses of the owner, lessee, and applicant and of the
responsible officers, if the owner or lessee is a corporate body, must be
stated in the application. All applications shall have all project applicable
contractors listed on the permit.
D.   Description Of Work. Every application for a permit must contain a general
description of the proposed work, its location, the use and occupancy of all
parts of the building or structure and of all portions of the site or lot not
covered by the building or structure, and such additional information as may be
required by the Building Commissioner.
E.   Plans And Specifications. Every application for a permit must be
accompanied by at least four copies of specifications and plans drawn to scale
and one electronic copy, unless the Building Commissioner grants permission to
submit fewer copies. The specifications and plans must be drawn with sufficient
clarity, detail, and dimensions to show clearly the nature and character of the
work to be performed. When, in the determination of the Building Commissioner,
a specific level of quality of materials or systems is essential for conformity
to this Title, specific information must be given to establish such quality.
The terms “this Title”, “legal”, “its equivalent”, or any other such terms may
not be used as a substitute for specific information. When the estimated cost
of construction exceeds $10,000.00, or the proposed work involves the
structural components of the building, the plans and specifications must bear
the signature and seal of an architect or a structural engineer licensed to
work in Illinois and, if appropriate, the signature and seal of a registered
professional engineer. The Building Commissioner may waive the requirement for
filing plans when the work involved is of a minor nature. When an application
is made for an unusually complex or innovative design or magnitude of
construction or when Referenced Standards, as referenced within the codes
adopted by the Village must be extensively applied to determine code
compliance, the Building Commissioner may require that the plan review be
conducted by an approved plan review service/company or alternative reviewing
agency at the applicant’s expense.
F.   Plat Of Survey. Every application must include two copies of a certified
plat of survey prepared, signed, and sealed by a qualified land surveyor
licensed by the State of Illinois, showing all boundaries of the property,
setback lines, existing structures if any, and all easements of record
submitted with the application.
G.   Estimate Of Cost. Every application must include an estimate by the owner
or his or her representative or agent of the total estimated cost of the work
proposed. Such cost estimate must include, among other things, all costs of
site preparation, mobilization, excavation, heating, plumbing, electrical
wiring, carpentry, materials, fire protection, utilities, air conditioning, and
the like. If the total cost at completion exceeds such cost estimate, then the
permittee must file with the Building Commissioner a statement of such total
cost at completion. The Building Commissioner reserves the right to request
documentation of completed project cost.
H.   Site Plan. Applications for demolition, additions, new construction, and
site work shall include all of following on a site plan drawn to scale, and the
contractor shall conduct all work in compliance with the following, except
where the Building Commissioner has determined that a particular requirement is
inapplicable due to the nature of the proposed work:
1.   Size and location of all proposed and existing buildings and structures on
the site;
2.   Distances of the buildings or structures to all property lines,;
3.   Existing grades at the corners of the site, at 20 foot intervals along the
property lines and at as many other locations as necessary to show the
topography and drainage of the site. The site plan also must show the proposed
final grades of the top of the building foundation walls, the finished site
grades at all corners, the finished site grades at 20 foot intervals along the
property lines, swales, and the intended surface water drainage plan;
4.   All parking lots with the required vehicle parking stalls;
5.   All outside lighting;
6.   Landscaping and restoration of all disturbed areas;
7.   Utility lines;
8.   The on-site location of dumpsters or other waste containers;
9.   Construction fencing;
10.   Silt fencing or other stormwater management devices;
11.   A depiction of the on-site access routes for vehicles, equipment, and
personnel;
12.   A tree survey showing the location and size of trees, as described in
Section
10-11-6, and the proposed location for tree protection fencing;
I.   Demolition Requirements. For demolitions, as defined in Section
9-1-18(A) of this Code, the application for a demolition permit shall include
the following information:
1.   Hazardous Construction Materials; Investigation and Remediation. For
demolitions, as defined in Section
9-1-18(A), the application for a demolition permit shall include the
information listed below. For the purposes of this Section, asbestos containing
materials, lead based paint, creosote treated materials, and underground
storage tanks are referred to collectively as “hazardous construction
materials”):
a.   For buildings or structures first constructed after 1978, a visual
inspection report stating that after a visual inspection, the qualified
individual performing the inspection knows of no hazardous construction
materials used in the building or structure to be demolished.
b.   For buildings or structures first constructed in or before 1978, or if the
visual inspection report reveals that hazardous construction materials exist in
the building or structure to be demolished, a report from a properly licensed
or qualified professional stating that, based on an actual sampling of the
construction materials where hazardous construction materials are likely to
exist, that no such hazardous construction materials were found.
c.   If under this subsection, hazardous construction materials are found, the
applicant must submit a hazardous construction materials remediation plan that
shall:
(1)   Identify all known or anticipated hazardous construction materials;
(2)   If the hazardous construction materials are to remain on the property,
details on the measures the applicant will undertake to avoid the disturbance
of, or removal of, such hazardous construction materials, or
(3)   If the hazardous construction materials are to be removed, details on how
the applicant will safely remove such hazardous construction materials.
2.   Dust Control. A description of dust control measures to take place during
structure removal, other demolition activities, and any other significant dust
generating activities.
3.   Traffic and Equipment Plan. A description of off-site access routes and
the location of parking for demolition equipment, hauling trucks, crew member
vehicles, and additional equipment.
4.   Other Measures. A description of any other measures specifically required
by the Building Commissioner to reasonably minimize adverse impacts of the
demolition activities on nearby properties, public facilities, and public and
private utilities and property.
5.   Restoration Plan. A restoration plan for repairing and restoring, to
Village standards, any public property, streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way,
parkways, utilities, and any private property, utilities, and structures
impacted or damaged by, or as a result of, the proposed demolition activities.
J.   Requirements for Construction Site Management. Every contractor or person
performing work shall comply with the following:
1.   Fencing. Fencing is to be installed as listed on the approved site plan
and shall include a gate for access and ability to enclose the site at the end
of each working day. Fencing on non-residential properties must be a chainlink
fence that is a minimum of six feet in height and properly supported. Fencing
on residential properties must be a minimum of a four feet in height, and may
be chainlink, or a green construction type fence and properly supported.
2.   Open Excavated Holes. All open excavated holes and drops are to be
completely encircled with a safety fence at least four feet high.
3.   Silt Fencing. Silt fencing is required to prevent silt from causing a
nuisance to neighboring properties, discharging into the storm sewer system, or
creating a hazard;
4.   Construction Drive. A stabilized construction entrance, built in
accordance with the Illinois Urban Manual, shall be installed prior to
commencing construction, with a gravel base to provide contractor parking to
the extent possible, and to prevent mud and debris from being tracked onto the
streets;
5.   Dirt and Debris. Dirt and debris shall be kept off of the streets and
sidewalks at all times, and a dumpster or trash container shall be provided
throughout construction. In the event that dirt or debris spill onto any street
or sidewalk, it must be cleaned up and removed immediately.
6.   Portable Toilet. A portable toilet shall be maintained at all times,
except where the building owner allows use of the existing facility. The
portable toilet must be placed in a location to minimize impact the neighbors
and a minimum of ten feet off the lot line.
7.   Sidewalks. All sidewalks damaged during construction are to be replaced.
In areas where a new principal structure is constructed, all the sidewalks
adjacent to the property are to be replaced unless determined otherwise by the
Building Commissioner. Sidewalks are to be replaced with a minimum of a four
inch bed of compacted gravel and a minimum of five inch thick concrete panel.
Sidewalk panels in drive areas are to be replaced with a minimum of seven inch
thick concrete.
8.   Temporary Bituminous Pavement. Sidewalks damaged during construction shall
be topped with temporary bituminous pavement within 48 hours until final
concrete can be placed.
9.   Granular Backfill. Granular backfill shall be required for all street,
road edge, sidewalk, driveway, slab, or patio areas as determined by the
Building Commissioner.
10.   Street Excavation. Any street excavation shall be topped with a temporary
bituminous pavement within 48 hours of excavation. A permanent minimum of three
inch bituminous layer or of a thickness to match existing pavement where the
existing is thicker, compacted in two lifts, with saw cut edges, is required as
part of the final approval (a road opening fee per the current fee schedule
will be accessed if road opening is performed).
11.   Damage Due To Construction. Damage to parkway or a neighbor’s property
due to construction shall be promptly repaired.
12.   Traffic And Parking Requirements. Traffic and parking requirements as
noted on the plans are to be followed throughout the construction process.
13.   Temporary Electric Services. Temporary electric services are to be
installed to prevent the use of generators.
14.   Tree Protection. Tree protection is to be installed per the site plan and
may include fencing, wrapping of trunk, root cutting before excavation,
trimming limbs for access, feeding, aerating, and directional boring under
trees with services as well as any other requirements of the tree preservation
regulations set forth in Title 10, Chapter 11.
15.   Storage Of Materials. Materials are to be stored on private property,
storage of materials in the public right of way is not permitted unless prior
approval is granted by the Village.
16.   Exterior Sanitary Sewer Cleanout Covers. All new exterior sanitary sewer
cleanout covers shall be of a type and material that can be repeatedly driven
over and shall not be made of a PVC material or other material that cannot
withstand the weight of vehicles.
17.   Dust. Dust of any type is to be controlled by use of water or other forms
of containment so not to cause a nuisance.
18.   Sump Discharge. Sump discharge is to have one or more of the following:
open site connection, storm sewer connection, drywell or discharge to approved
area on the property (sump water will not be allowed to discharge to a location
that will cause a hazard in freezing conditions such as drives, sidewalks, or
streets).
19.   Removal Of Debris. All waste materials shall be removed in a manner which
prevents injury or damage to persons, adjoining properties and public rights of
way. Adjoining streets and sidewalks shall be left broom-clean at the end of
each working day.
20.   Utility Connections. All service utility connections which are being
discontinued shall be capped at the main in accordance with the rules and
requirements of the authority having jurisdiction.
21.   Erosion and Sediment Control. All water pumped or diverted from
excavations or construction sites shall be filtered to remove sediment in
accordance with the standards set forth in the Illinois Urban Manual or other
applicable engineering standards as determined by the Village Engineer or
Building Official.
K.   Utility As Built Drawings. As built drawings are required for all exterior
water, sanitary, and storm service lines from the foundation wall of the
structure being serviced to the point of connection with the existing service
stub or existing main. The as built drawing is required regardless of the
length of the installation of the new portion of the utility service.
1.   The drawing must be to scale and be no smaller than one inch equals twenty
feet (1" = 20'). The scale must be indicated on the submitted drawings.
2.   The drawing must be neat, clean and legible. Multiple service lines may be
shown on the same drawing.
3.   The minimum acceptable drawing size is 8.5 by 11 inches.
4.   The pipe size and type must be indicated for each service line.
5.   The location of the installed service line(s) must be tied to a minimum of
two exterior property corners and two exterior foundation corners within an
accuracy of one foot.
6.   The locations of all fittings, cleanouts, and B-boxes must be identified
within an accuracy of one foot.
7.   The depth of the utility service below final grade must be indicated at
all grade and at a minimum of every 50 feet along the length of each installed
service.
8.   All prominent topographical features such as exterior build foundations
lines, sidewalks, back of curb, edge of pavement and existing manholes must be
indicated if these features are within 20 feet of any portion of the utility
service line work covered by the building permit.
9.   The means of connecting the new portion of the utility line to the
existing main or stub must be identified (coupling types, tees, wyes, etc.).
10.   The lower right hand corner of the submitted drawings must contain the
following information: street address where the work is being performed; the
building permit number; the date of the sketch preparation; the name and
address and telephone number of the general contractor and subcontractor.
L.   Spot Foundation Survey. For new principal structure construction and
additions or accessory structures over 500 square feet, or other structures
when required by the Building Commissioner, a spot survey is required after
foundation walls have been poured and stripped but before any work on the
superstructure is begun. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-6: PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
A.   Action On Application. The Building Commissioner will examine or cause to
be examined each application for a permit, and any amendments thereto, within a
reasonable time after filing. If the application, plans, or other required
documents do not conform to the requirements of all pertinent laws and
ordinances, then the Building Commissioner will notify the applicant of the
deficiencies of the application and generally of any additional information or
data necessary to establish that the application will meet the applicable
requirements. When the Building Commissioner is satisfied that the proposed
work as represented by the permit application, plans, and documents conforms to
the requirements of this Title and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto,
the Building Commissioner will issue a permit as soon as practicable.
B.   Signature Validation. No permit is valid unless it is signed by the
Building Commissioner or his or her designee. The Building Commissioner’s
signature must be executed on or attached to every permit, or the Building
Commissioner may designate one or more inspectors or other employees to
validate a permit by affixing their signatures thereto.
C.   Approved Plans. The Building Commissioner or his or her designee must
stamp or otherwise endorse in writing all sets of approved plans,
specifications, shop drawings, and other required documents with the word
“approved”. One set of such approved plans and documents will be retained for
the permanent property file records of the Village and one or more sets will be
returned to the applicant. The permittee must maintain a complete set of
approved plans and documents at the building site that must be open to
inspection and review by the Village’s authorized inspectors at all reasonable
times during construction. Other sets of approved plans will be forwarded to
such other agencies as necessary or required.
D.   Compliance Required Regardless Of Plan Approval. Plans approved by the
Building Commissioner are approved with the intent that the plans and
specifications comply in all respects to this Title. Any omissions or errors on
the approved plans or within the specifications will not relieve the applicant
of his or her responsibility to comply with all applicable requirements of this
Title and with every other applicable law.
E.   Posting Of Permit. The building permit must be posted in a visible
position on the street side of the structure under permit during the entire
time of the construction operations.
F.   Notice Of Start. The permittee must give at least 24 hour notice to the
Building Commissioner before work is started under any issued permit. (Ord.
2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-7: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
A.   Payment Of Fees. No permit will be issued until all fees required for such
permit have been paid.
B.   Required Subdivision And Utilities. No permit will be issued for the
construction of any principal building until the Village Engineer has certified
that the property can be properly served with Village sewer and water mains.
The Village Engineer may release the property for permit if construction
improvement plans have been approved and the owner of the property, or his or
her agent, has guaranteed the installation of all required construction
improvements with surety bonds or other certified documents acceptable to the
Village, conforming to the requirements of Title 10 and every other applicable
regulation.
C.   Other Agency Or Department Approvals. No permit will be issued until
required approvals from other agencies or departments are received by the
Building Department.
D.   Permit As License Only; Compliance With Title. A permit is only a license
to proceed with the work. No permit is, nor may be construed or applied to be,
authority to violate, cancel, or set aside any of the provisions of this Title,
except as specifically provided by approved modification or legally granted
variations as described in the application and supporting documents.
E.   Compliance With Permit. All work must conform to the approved application
and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved amendments
thereto, except that such applications, plans, and amendments may not be
construed or applied to authorize any violation of this Code.
F.   Compliance With Site Plan. All new work must be located and constructed
strictly in accordance with the approved site plan.
G.   Change In Site Plan. No site plan or part thereof may be changed,
increased, or diminished in area from that shown on the official approved site
plan unless a revised site plan showing such changes, accompanied by the
necessary affidavit of the owner or applicant, has been filed and approved by
the appropriate Village authorities.
H.   Completion Or Removal Of Structure. If a structure is not completed, for
whatever cause, then the incomplete structure, including all foundations and
other underground installations, must be removed and the site restored to its
original condition as provided in this Title.
I.   Working Hours.
1.   Limitation On Exterior Construction Hours. There shall be no exterior
construction work, material hauling, construction equipment startup, or idling
of construction equipment or construction vehicles on any property in the
Village during the following times:
a.   Monday through Friday before 7:00 A.M. and after 7:00 P.M.;
b.   Saturdays before 8:00 A.M. and after 6:00 P.M.;
c.   Sundays and the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth
of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas; before 9:00 A.M. and after 5:
00 P.M.; provided, however, that in no event shall heavy equipment, including,
without limitation, earthmoving machinery, dump trucks in excess of 2.5 tons,
and other similar equipment and vehicles, be operated at any time on Sundays or
holidays recognized by the Village of Lake Bluff personnel manual.
2.   Limitation On Interior Construction Hours. There shall be no interior
construction work of any kind on any property in the Village that produces
noise that can be heard on any property other than the property on which such
interior construction work takes place at the following times:
a.   Monday through Friday before 7:00 A.M. and after 7:00 P.M.;
b.   Saturdays before 8:00 A.M. and after 6:00 P.M.;
c.   Sundays and the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth
of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas; before 9:00 A.M. and after 5:
00 P.M.
3.   Waiver by Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner may waive any
of the construction hour regulations in the event of an extraordinary
circumstance or emergency. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-8: INSPECTIONS:
A.   Required Inspections. The Building Commissioner or his or her duly
authorized inspectors will make all of the following inspections and all such
additional inspections as the Building Commissioner deems necessary to enforce
the provisions of this Title, the Lake Bluff Zoning Regulations, and other
applicable codes and ordinances:
1.   After excavation has been made preparatory to any underground installation
such as footings, foundations, sewers, water lines, or other underground
systems.
2.   After installation of underground systems and before any backfilling.
3.   After installation of framing, ducts for heating and ventilation, vents,
chimneys, plumbing, electrical system, fireplace firebox, flues and chimneys,
prefabricated fireplaces, fire sprinkler systems, fuel gas piping and other
installations that may be concealed in walls, floors, ceilings, attics, or
other inaccessible locations and before such work has been covered by plaster,
wallboard, furring, or any other material.
4.   After installation of a central heating and cooling plant and its
accessories and before it is placed into operation, emergency backup power
generators, accessory structures, and hardscape.
5.   After all construction and cleanup work has been completed and an
occupancy permit has been requested.
B.   Request By Permittee. The permittee must request an inspection from the
Building Commissioner at least 24 hours in advance of the inspection. No such
request may be made until the work and the site are in full compliance with all
standards applicable to the work for which the inspection is requested. The
same requirements apply to all reinspections. One reinspection will be allowed
at no charge. Subsequent reinspections will be charged at the rate established
in Section
1-12-3. “Reinspection” means any additional inspection of the same work
previously inspected and not approved.
C.   Exposure Of Covered Work. If any work is covered prior to proper
inspection of it, then the Building Commissioner may require that such work be
uncovered at the permittee’s expense so that a proper inspection can be made.
D.   Inspection Of Existing Conditions. The Building Commissioner or his or her
duly authorized inspectors may enter on all property and structures in the
Village during all regular Village business hours and all other reasonable
times for the purpose of inspecting such property and structures. No person may
deny access to any premises for such inspections. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-9: TIME LIMITS:
A.   Expiration of Building Permit. Any building permit issued pursuant to this
Title will be null and void if:
1.   The work authorized by such permit has not commenced within six months
after the date of issuance of such permit;
2.   Such work has begun but is suspended or abandoned for six months or
longer;
3.   Work is not completed within one year for projects with a construction
cost of $300,000.00 or less, or within 15 months for projects with a
construction cost of over $300,000.00.
B.   Extension for Good Cause; Fee. The Building Commissioner may, but is not
required to, extend any such time limit for good cause shown, after written
request for such extension and payment of a deposit equal to an amount adequate
to cover permit renewal for at least six months or such longer time as the
Building Commissioner may determine is likely to be necessary for the
completion of construction. The fee due shall be based on the monthly permit
renewal fee set in the fee schedule for renewal of a permit with exterior work
incomplete or renewal of a permit with only interior work incomplete, as the
case may be.
C.   Restoration Upon Expiration. If a permit has expired and is not renewed,
then all previous construction, if any, must be removed and the property
restored to its original condition, and all fees paid therefor are forfeited to
the Village and the permit is null and void. If the permittee does not remove
all previous construction and restore the property to its original condition,
then the Village may complete such removal and restoration and recover all of
its costs and expenses by the filing of a lien on the property or by any other
legal action permitted by law. Any bond or deposit on file for such permit
shall be forfeited to the Village.
D.   Applications. Any permit application pending for more than six months for
which no permit has been issued will be deemed null and void. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-
28-2021)
9-1-10: CANCELLATION OF PERMIT; RETURN OF FEES:
After written request therefor from the permittee, the Building Commissioner
may cancel any permit issued under this Title and return the permit fees paid
therefor provided that no development of any kind has commenced pursuant to
such permit and provided, further, that the Village will retain 50 percent of
such permit fees to reimburse the Village’s administrative costs and expenses.
This Section does not authorize, and may not be construed or applied to
authorize, the return of any plan review fees. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-11: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Building Commissioner may revoke any permit or approval issued under the
provisions of this Title for any of the following reasons: i) any false
statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application or on the plans and
other documents on which the permit or approval was based; ii) any violation of
any applicable provision of this Title or any other code or ordinance, or iii)
any material deviation from any approved plan, drawing, or specification. (Ord.
2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-12: STOP WORK ORDERS:
A.   Authorization. The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized to issue and
post stop work orders to stop work on any building, structure, or premises
under any of the following circumstances:
1.   When work is being done without a building permit.
2.   When false or incomplete information has been given to obtain a permit.
3.   When a permit has been issued but payment of permit fees has been refused
or otherwise not received by the Village.
4.   When work is being performed contrary to the provisions of this Title or
other applicable Village codes or ordinances.
5.   When the permittee does not take prompt action to correct violations as
provided in Section
9-1-14 of this chapter.
6.   When work is being done in an unsafe or dangerous manner.
7.   When the conditions on the premises are unsafe or dangerous, either to
those working on the premises or to the general public in vehicles or afoot.
8.   For any other good or just cause as determined by the Building
Commissioner in his sole discretion that would warrant the issuance of a stop
work order to enforce Village codes or ordinances or to protect public safety,
health, or welfare.
B.   Issuance And Effect Of Stop Work Order. The Building Commissioner, or his
or her authorized designee, may issue a stop work order either orally or in
writing. If the stop work order is first issued orally, then it must be
followed with a written stop work order within 48 hours after such oral order.
After a stop work order has been issued, whether orally or in writing, all work
or action subject to such order must be stopped immediately. The stop work
order may be given to the permittee, to his or her agent, or to the person
doing the work. A copy of the stop work order will be posted on the premises.
C.   Unlawful Continuance. It is unlawful for any person to do any work or to
take any action in violation of a stop work order. Any person, other than the
Building Commissioner or his or her authorized designee, who removes a posted
stop work order or who continues any work in or about the building, structure,
or premises after a stop work order has been issued and posted, is guilty of a
violation of this Section and is subject to prosecution and fines as provided
in this chapter. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, the
permittee, after approval of the Building Commissioner, may do such work as is
necessary to protect the public health and safety and to correct the safety
hazards, Code violations, or other defects complained of in the stop work
order. The Building Commissioner will set forth the conditions under which such
approval will be given to proceed.
D.   Removal Of Stop Work Order. A stop work order may be removed only when the
Building Commissioner is satisfied that the safety hazards have been rectified,
that the violations have been corrected, that the proper building permits have
been issued, that such other action has been taken or is forthcoming to resolve
the original complaints, and that proper cash bonds or other guarantees have
been filed with the Village. After payment of the required fee, as provided in
Section
1-12-3, written release of the stop work order will be given to all parties who
had previously received the original stop work order. The stop work order then
will be removed by the Building Commissioner and the work may proceed. (Ord.
2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-13: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
A.   New Buildings. No new building or structure may be used or occupied, in
whole or in part, until a certificate of use and occupancy has been issued
certifying that the building or structure has been completed in accordance with
the approved permit.
B.   Alterations; Use Changes. No part of any building or structure hereafter
enlarged, extended, altered, or changed, or in which a use or ownership has
changed, may be used or occupied in such part until a certificate of use and
occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner certifying that the work
has been completed in accordance with the provisions of the approved permit or
that the use is properly authorized by, and in compliance with, applicable law.
In the case of a change of ownership without work requiring a permit; a new
certificate of occupancy is required.
C.   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy.
1.   General. When a building or project has been completed but, for good
cause, minor building and site improvements that are affected by weather
conditions, such as seeding or sod, final grading, asphalt or concrete work, or
the like, have not been completed, the Building Commissioner may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy, but only after a request therefor, payment
of the required fee, and posting of the required bond. No temporary certificate
of occupancy may be issued except after a finding by the Building Commissioner
that such permit will not adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of
the occupants or the general public. A final certificate of occupancy is
required for all parts of the premises after completion of all work.
2.   Business, Office, And Industrial. The Building Commissioner may issue a
separate temporary certificate of occupancy authorizing use and occupation to
conduct business in a business, office, or industrial structure, but only after
a request therefor, payment of the required fee and bond, and testing and
approval of the fire suppression and alarm systems granted in the discretion of
the Village’s Fire Department and Building Commissioner; and then only if the
Building Commissioner determines that such work will pose no immediate threat
to the health, safety, and welfare of workers or of the general public. No such
temporary occupancy permit creates or gives rise to, or may be construed or
applied to create or give rise to, any right in the permittee to further occupy
the structure. Every such permit must state that it does not create any right
to a final occupancy permit and that all work undertaken pursuant to such
permit is at the permittee’s sole risk. No use or occupation for conducting
business is permitted except after issuance of such a temporary occupancy
permit.
D.   Permission. The Building Commissioner, at his or her discretion and only
after a specific request from the permittee, may give permission to the owner
or his designee to place inventory, fixtures, racking, material, stock, other
types of inventory, or the like in a business, office, or industrial building.
This permission may be granted only if the placement of the materials will not
limit the completion of construction or inspections and provided the fire
suppression and alarm systems have been installed, tested, and accepted by the
Village Fire Department for granting of such permission. This permission does
not allow occupation of the building or area to conduct business of any kind
under any circumstances. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-14: UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND PREMISES:
A.   Definition; Removal Required. Any structure or premises that is, or
hereafter becomes, unsanitary, deficient in exit facilities, a fire hazard, or
an attractive nuisance, or that is otherwise dangerous to human life, safety,
or the public welfare (such conditions hereinafter collectively referred to as
“unsafe”) is deemed an unsafe structure or premises. Every unsafe structure
must be taken down and removed, in whole or in part, or made safe and secure,
as the Building Commissioner deems necessary or as provided in this Title. A
vacant structure with unguarded or open doors, windows, or other openings and
accessible to the general public is an attractive nuisance, a fire hazard, and
unsafe within the meaning of this Section.
B.   Examination Of Unsafe Structures And Premises. The Building Commissioner
will examine every structure and premises reported as unsafe and will prepare a
report of his or her findings.
C.   Notice Of Unsafe Conditions. If an unsafe condition is found in a
structure or premises, then the Building Commissioner will serve written notice
on the owner, the owner’s agent, or the person in control of the structure or
premises, describing the unsafe conditions found and specifying the required
repairs, improvements, or actions to be taken to render the structure or
premises safe or secured, or requiring the unsafe structure or portion thereof
to be demolished, or such other action as is necessary to remove the hazard
within a stipulated time. Such notice must require the person thus notified to
declare, to the Building Commissioner, his or her acceptance or rejection of
the terms of the notice.
D.   Restoration Of Unsafe Structure. An unsafe structure may be restored to a
safe condition. If the cost of the repairs or reconstruction necessary to put
the structure into a safe condition is estimated by the Building Commissioner
to exceed 50% of the fair market value of the structure in its unrestored
condition, then the structure must be made to comply in all respects with the
provisions of this Title, the Lake Bluff Zoning Regulations, and all other
applicable codes and ordinances for the construction of a new structure,
including, without limitation, the installation of fire and life safety systems
required pursuant to this Title.
E.   Posting Unsafe Notice. If the owner, owner’s agent, or person in control
of the unsafe structure or premises cannot be found, after diligent search,
then the notice of unsafe condition will be sent by registered or certified
mail to the last known address of one of those persons and a copy of such
notice will be posted in a conspicuous place on the structure or premises.
F.   Disregard Of Unsafe Notice. After refusal or neglect of the person served
with a notice of unsafe condition to comply with the requirements of the notice
to abate the unsafe condition, the Village may institute the appropriate legal
action to compel compliance with the order. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-15: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
A.   Vacating Structures. When, in the opinion of the Building Commissioner,
there is an immediate danger of failure or collapse of a structure or any part
thereof that would endanger life, or when any building or structure has
collapsed and life is endangered by the continued occupation of the structure,
the Building Commissioner may order and require the occupants thereof to vacate
the structure forthwith. In that case, the Building Commissioner will cause to
be posted, at each entrance to such structure, a notice reading “DANGER” and
stating that the structure is unsafe and its use or occupancy has been
prohibited. It is unlawful thereafter for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of making required repairs or demolishing the structure.
B.   Temporary Safeguards. When, in the opinion of the Building Commissioner,
there is an immediate danger to life, property, or the safety of the general
public by a collapse or failure of a structure or by other unsafe conditions on
or in the structure or premises, the Building Commissioner immediately may
cause the necessary work to be done to render such structure or premises or
parts thereof temporarily safe or inaccessible to the general public.
C.   Closing Of Streets And Buildings. When necessary for public safety, the
Building Commissioner may close sidewalks, streets, buildings, and structures
temporarily and prohibit them from being used.
D.   Emergency Work. For the purposes of enforcement of this Section, the
Building Commissioner may employ and obtain the necessary labor, equipment,
services, and materials, whether through existing Village resources or through
outside contractors and vendors, to perform the required work as expeditiously
as possible.
E.   Costs Of Emergency Work. All costs incurred by the Village in the
performance of emergency work pursuant to this Section will be billed to the
owner of the premises. If the owner of the premises does not, or cannot,
promptly pay said bill, then the Village may pursue any and all appropriate
legal action against the owner for the recovery of such costs, including,
without limitation, causing a lien for such costs to be filed against the
property. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-16: MOVING BUILDINGS:
A.   Moving Permit Required. It is unlawful to move any building within the
corporate limits of the Village without first obtaining a permit. This Section
shall not apply to the moving of buildings from one point upon any lot to any
other point upon the same lot where, in such removal, the building or buildings
so moved shall not be moved in, over, or upon any of the streets, alleys,
avenues, or other public places property in the Village.
B.   Form of Application; Conditions. Every application for a permit must be
submitted on an application form supplied by the Village and must be
accompanied by such fees as prescribed in Section
1-12-3 of this Code. The permit application must specify, at a minimum:
1.   The present location of the building to be moved;
2.   The proposed route over which the building is to be moved;
3.   The building’s final location; and
4.   The length of time scheduled to remove the building.
Any permit issued by the Building Commissioner may specify: (i) conditions
applicable to the moving of the building necessary to prevent a public nuisance
and protect the public safety and welfare; (ii) the route that the permittee
must take upon the public ways of the Village in moving the building, and (iii)
the time(s) and day(s) that the permit is valid for, as well as the maximum
length of time that the building may travel upon public rights-of-way.
C.   Bond Required. A cash deposit or surety bond, in an amount determined by
the Building Commissioner, but in no event less than $5,000.00, must be
submitted with any application for a moving permit. The return of the cash
deposit or surety bond shall be conditioned, among other things, on: (i) the
permittee paying for any damages caused by the permittee or its contractors or
agents to any trees, pavement, street, sidewalk, poles, wires, utility boxes,
or any other property belonging to the Village; (ii) the permittee indemnifying
and holding the Village harmless for any liabilities, judgments, costs and
expenses which may accrue against the Village as a consequence of the granting
of such permit; and (iii) the permittee strictly complies with all of the
conditions of the permit.
D.   Failure To Obtain Permit; Penalty. Any person who shall move any building
upon any street, avenue, or alley or other public place or public property in
the Village, without having first procured a permit or who violates any of the
provisions of this Section, shall be deemed guilty of an unlawful act and
subject to penalties as provided in Section
9-1-22 of this chapter. Any building being moved by such a person without a
license and a permit on any of the streets, avenues, alleys, or other public
places in the Village by such licensed person not having the required permit
shall be deemed a nuisance.
E.   Exceeding Time Limit; Penalty. The owner of any building, or the
contractor for its removal, either or both of them, who shall suffer any such
cause a building to be or remain on any of the Village’s streets or alleys, or
upon any of the public property of the Village, for any time longer than may be
specified in the moving permit, shall be deemed guilty of an unlawful act, and
shall be subject to penalties as provided in Section
9-1-22 of this Code, and such building shall be deemed a nuisance subject to
abatement by the Village authorities. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-17: BUILDING NUMBERS AND ADDRESSES:
A.   Numbering. All buildings within the Village shall be assigned an address
by the Village Engineer. The address assigned shall be based upon the side of
the building the front door is on, and not necessarily on the front lot line
designated by the Zoning Regulations.
B.   Size Of Figures. The owner of each building shall maintain a visible
street number at all times that is: (i) a minimum of four inches in height;
(ii) of a color that contrasts with its background; and (iii) readily visible
and readable from the building’s addressed street.
C.   Violations; Penalty. The owner of any property failing to so number the
buildings on his lot, as required by this Section, shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in Section
9-1-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-18: DEMOLITIONS:
A.   Definition. For the purposes of this Section, “demolition” shall mean any
act or process within the control of the owner of any building or structure
that: (i) results in a change to the footprint of the building or structure;
(ii) removes or destroys the structure or building; (iii) removes, destroys, or
otherwise involves construction activity impacting 1,000 square feet or more of
the interior of the structure or building; or (iv) removes or destroys 50
percent or more of the “gross floor area”, as defined in Section
10-1-2 of this Code, of the structure or building.
B.   Demolition Permit Required. A demolition permit from the Building
Commissioner shall be required for all demolitions.
C.   Demolition Permit Fees. The fees for demolition permits required pursuant
to this Section shall be those established and listed in Section
1-12-3 of this Code.
D.   Deposit Required. A cash deposit or surety bond shall be submitted along
with the demolition permit application. The delivery, use, and disposition of
all deposits or surety bonds required under this Section shall be governed by
Section
7-1-4 of this Code, provided, however, that no deposit or surety bond shall be
returned prior to the satisfactory completion of the demolition, as determined
by the Building Commissioner, and the demolition being completed in accordance
with all requirements of this Code and any conditions in the demolition permit.
E.   Historic Preservation Reviews. No demolition permit may be issued until
the applicant has satisfied any applicable historic preservation review
requirements pursuant to Chapter 14 of this Title.
F.   Demolition Schedule. An applicant who is required to receive a demolition
permit under this Section must provide a demolition schedule to the Building
Commissioner at least two business days prior to engaging in any demolition
activity authorized in the permit. In the event that such schedule changes, the
applicant must provide an updated schedule to the Building Commissioner as soon
as practicable to enable the Building Commissioner or his or her designee the
opportunity to inspect the property while demolition activities are in
progress. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-19: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct, alter,
extend, repair, replace, remove, demolish, move, use, or occupy any building,
structure, equipment, device, or system regulated by this Title, or cause same
to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this
Title or any other applicable code or ordinance of the Village or other
agencies of jurisdiction. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-20: NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS:
The Building Commissioner will serve a written notice of violation, or order to
comply, on the person, firm, or corporation responsible for the erection,
construction, alteration, extension, repair, replacement, removal, demolition,
move, use, or occupancy of any building or structure performed: a) in violation
of the provisions of this Title, or b) in violation of any approved document or
plan filed with the Village to secure a building permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this Title, or c) in violation of any applicable
ordinance, statute, or law of the Village or any other agency having legal
jurisdiction over the performance of the work being done. The notice of
violation, or order to comply, will direct the discontinuance of the illegal
action or condition and the abatement of the violations, and will provide a
time period for discontinuance or abatement which is appropriate for the
condition. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-21: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
If a notice of violation or order to comply is not complied with promptly, then
the Building Commissioner will issue a stop work order as provided for in
Section
9-1-12 of this chapter. The stop work order may not be removed until all
violations complained of have been corrected and the fee as provided for in
Section
1-12-3 has been paid. If the permittee or his or her agents refuse or are
unable to correct any violation, then the Village may institute the appropriate
proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct, or abate such violations
or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful act complained of in
the violation notice. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
9-1-22: PENALTIES:
A.   General Penalty. Any person, firm, corporation, or entity which violates
any of the provisions of this Title or other applicable codes or ordinances of
the Village, or who disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or
who resists the enforcement of, any of the provisions of this Title, applicable
Village codes and ordinances, the approved plans and documents of the building
permit, an order of the Building Commissioner issued under this Title, or any
certificate or other permit issued under the provisions of this Title, shall be
guilty of an offense and punished by a fine of not less than $150.00 or more
than $750.00 for each provision of this Title violated. Each day on which such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
B.   Special Penalty For No Permit. In addition to every other penalty provided
by law, any person, firm, corporation, or entity that undertakes any work for
which a permit is required by this Title without first having secured a permit
authorizing such work will be fined a sum of money at least equal to two times
the full amount of the building or other permit for such work, exclusive of any
reductions or waiver in fees that may be otherwise applicable. Such fine is in
addition to the required fee.
C.   Stop Work Orders. Any person who shall continue any work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a fine
of not less than $150.00 or more than $750.00 for each offense payable to the
Village. Each day on which such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
9-1-23: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed does not preclude the Village
from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction, or to
restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a
building, structure, or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business,
or use of a building or structure on or about any premises. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-
28-2021)
9-1-24: INTERPRETATIONS; APPEALS:
A.    Interpretations of this Title.
1.   Authority Of The Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner may
render written interpretations of the provisions of this Title and of any rule,
regulation, or condition issued or imposed pursuant to it.
2.   Purpose Of Interpretations. The interpretation authority established by
this Section is intended to recognize that the provisions of this Title cannot
possibly address every specific situation to which they may have to be applied.
Many such situations, however, can be readily addressed by an interpretation of
the specific provisions of this Title in light of the general and specific
purposes for which those provisions have been enacted. Because the
interpretation authority herein established is an administrative rather than a
legislative authority, it is not intended to add to or to change the essential
content of this Title, but rather is intended only to allow authoritative
application of that content to specific cases.
3.   Parties Entitled to Seek Interpretations. Applications for interpretations
may be filed by any person having an interest in the circumstances giving rise
to the need for an interpretation; provided, however, that interpretations
shall not be sought by any person based solely on hypothetical facts or where
the interpretation would have no effect and would be merely an advisory
opinion.
4.   Procedure. Any person who seeks a written interpretation must file a
written application therefor with the Village stating specifically the Title
provisions at issue and the facts and circumstances related to such person’s
request for an interpretation. The Building Commissioner will make a decision
in writing on such interpretation and provide that written decision to the
applicant within 30 days after the application is filed. Any failure of the
Building Commissioner to act within 30 days, or within such further time to
which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to be a decision denying the
application rendered on the day immediately after that 30 day period.
B.   Appeals from this Title.
1.   Authority. The Architectural Board of Review shall hear and decide appeals
from, and review orders, decisions, determinations, or the failure to act, of
the Building Commissioner acting pursuant to his authority and duties under
this Title. To that end, the Architectural Board of Review shall have the same
powers and be subject to the same standards and limitations as the Building
Commissioner with respect to any order, decision or determination being
appealed.
2.   Purpose. The appeal procedure is provided as a safeguard against
arbitrary, ill-considered or erroneous administrative decisions. It is intended
to avoid the need for resort to legal action by providing a local procedure for
the review and correction of administrative errors. It is not, however,
intended as a means to subvert either the purposes, intent, or meaning of this
Title or the rightful authority of the Building Commissioner to enforce this
Title. To these ends, the reviewing body should give all proper deference to
the spirit and language of this Title and to the reasonable interpretations of
those charged with its administration.
3.   Right To Appeal. A decision by the Building Commissioner on an
interpretation under this Section, or on the application of a provision of this
Title, may be appealed to the Architectural Board of Review by the filing of a
written application for an appeal with the Village Administrator.
4.   Scheduling. Within ten days after an appeal has been filed pursuant to
this Section, the Building Commissioner must set a date and time for a meeting
before the Architectural Board of Review. The meeting must take place within 30
days after the appeal has been filed.
5.   Postponement. The appellant has the right to request one postponement of
the meeting. If a request is made, then the Building Commissioner must set the
meeting for a date no more than 30 days after the first established date.
6.   Meeting Procedures. The Architectural Board of Review may adopt procedures
governing the procedures for its meetings. Those procedures must be consistent
with the following standards:
a.   The procedures need not require compliance with strict rules of evidence.
b.   Meetings shall be open to the public. There is no requirement that members
of the public be allowed to testify at a meeting.
c.   The appellant, the appellant’s representative, the Village, and any person
whose interests are directly affected must be given an opportunity to be heard
and may submit documents in support of their position.
d.   At a meeting, the Architectural Board of Review may receive testimony and
review documents and other relevant materials.
e.   The Building Commissioner may participate fully in all proceedings, but
has no vote on any decision.
7.   Decisions. The Architectural Board of Review must issue a written decision
within 15 days after the conclusion of the meeting on appeal. That decision
must be transmitted promptly to the appellant. The decision may reverse, affirm
or modify, in whole or in part, the action appealed and may include such order
or determination as, in the opinion of the Architectural Board of Review, is
proper to be made. A failure of the Architectural Board of Review to issue a
written decision within 15 days will be deemed a denial of the appeal. All
decisions by the Architectural Board of Reviews are final. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-
2021)
9-1-25: FEES:
A.   General. No permit to begin work for new construction, alterations,
replacement, removal, demolition, relocation, or other building construction
operations or work requiring a building permit will be issued until after the
fees required for that permit, as prescribed in Section
1-12-3, have been paid in full to the Village. In addition, no amendment to a
permit for which an additional fee must be paid as prescribed in this Chapter
will be approved until after the additional fee has been paid in full to the
Village.
B.   Basis Of Fees. Building permit fees are based, as provided in this
Chapter, on the size of the project and the cost of total construction.
C.   Additional Fees. The payment of the fees for the construction, alteration,
replacement, removal, demolition, relocation or other building construction
operations and for all other work done in connection with or concurrently with
the work contemplated by a building permit does not relieve the applicant or
holder of the permit from the obligation to pay all other fees prescribed by
law or ordinance.
D.   Site Performance; Cash Deposit.
1.   Deposit Requirement. Every applicant must post with the Village, at the
time of issuance of a permit, a site/performance cash deposit in an amount
determined by the Building Commissioner as necessary to guarantee the timely
completion of work in a manner that is compliant with this Code and all
applicable laws, and restoration of any damage to Village property.
2.   Village Right To Draw On Deposit. The Village has the right at all times,
at its option, to draw on the site/performance cash deposit to reimburse the
Village for the costs, including, without limitation, legal fees and
administrative expenses, actually incurred and reasonably estimated to be
incurred by the Village in exercising any of its rights under this Title in the
event: a) the applicant undertakes any work in violation of any provision of
this Title or of any permit issued or plan approved pursuant to this Title or
b) the applicant fails or refuses to complete the work authorized by any permit
issued under this Title in accordance with all plans approved in connection
with said permit.
3.   Replacement Of Deposit. If the Village draws on the site/performance cash
deposit, then the applicant must replenish the deposit to the full amount
required by this Section within five days after demand therefor is made to the
applicant in writing by the Village. Any failure of the applicant to fully
replenish the deposit will result in cancellation of the related permit, which
permit will not be reissued thereafter except after the filing of a new
application and paying the required fees therefor.
4.   Return Of Unused Deposit. The Village will promptly return any unused
portion of the site/performance cash deposit to the applicant, without
interest, as follows:
a.   For all work other than a temporary sign, after proper completion of all
work.
b.   For a temporary sign, after removal of such sign, but only if that removal
occurs within 48 hours after the permit for the temporary sign has expired. If
removal occurs later than 48 hours after the permit expired, then the site/
performance cash deposit is forfeited to the Village.
5.   Forfeiture Of Deposit. A site/performance cash deposit posted pursuant to
subsection (D)(1) shall be forfeited to the Village in full if:
a.   the permittee does not request a final inspection prior to the expiration
of the permit for which the deposit was made
b.   the permittee does not cure all defects in the performance of the work
pursuant to the permit for which the deposit was posted within 30 days after
the specified date for completion; or
c.   the permittee occupies the building or any portion of the building without
written permission or certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 2021-13, 6-28-2021)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of International Building Code
9-2-2: International Building Code On File
9-2-3: Amendments To The International Building Code
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The 2018 edition of the International Building Code, as promulgated and
published by the International Code Council, Inc. (“international building
code”), is adopted by reference and incorporated as if set forth herein, as
modified in section 9-2-3 of this chapter for the purpose of regulating the
erection, construction, enlargement, equipment, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, demolition, conversion, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and structures in the village of Lake Bluff except for single-family
detached dwellings and two-family dwellings and all buildings and structures
accessory thereto to the extent that such dwellings are expressly regulated by
the international residential code, as adopted by the village and amended
pursuant to chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016;
amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-2-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the international building code are available for
public use and inspection at the office of the village clerk, village hall,
Lake Bluff, Illinois. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-2-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The 2018 edition of the International Building Code, adopted by reference
pursuant to section 9-2-1 of this chapter, is amended as set forth in this
section. Subsequent section numbers used in this section shall refer to the
like numbered sections of the international building code:
101.1 Delete “[name of jurisdiction]” and replace with “the village of Lake
Bluff, Illinois”.
101.4.3 Delete the term “international plumbing code” and replace with Illinois
plumbing license law, 225 ILCS 320/0.01 et seq., and the regulations adopted
thereunder (“Illinois plumbing law”), as adopted by the village and amended
pursuant to title 9, chapter 6 of the village code. Insert after the first
sentence: “Every reference to the ICC international plumbing code in the
international building code shall mean and refer to the Illinois plumbing law.”
Delete the entire last sentence of the section without substitution.
101.4.8 Add the following new section 101.4.8:
“101.4.8 International Building Code Commentary. The narratives in the preface
to international building code shall apply, as a supplement, to the
international building code.”
105.2 Delete section 105.2.
105.5 Delete section 105.5.
105.7 Delete section 105.7 and replace as follows:
“105.7 Posting Of Permit. Permit placard is to be posted on the site of
operations, visible at all times from the street until the final inspection is
completed. One copy of the architectural plans approved by the village with all
requirements noted for contractors and inspectors reference is to be on site at
all times throughout construction.”
105.8 Add new section 105.8 as follows:
“105.8 License. No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity
shall engage as a general contractor, or subcontractor for electrical,
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, sewer work, water, septic or sewage
disposal systems, storm sewer, fence, concrete, driveway, patio, roadway, or
construction work of any nature and description in the village, unless licensed
to do business in the village. Fees for such licenses shall be set forth in
section 1-12-3 of the municipal code.”
105.9 Add the following new section 105.9:
“105.9 Public Sanitary, Storm And Water Improvements Required. No permit shall
be issued for the construction of any building for habitation, on any existing
lot or existing parcel of land within the corporate limits of the village,
unless the lot on which the building is located is directly served, or is
proposed to be directly served as part of the construction project, by a public
water main, storm sewer and a public sanitary sewer approved by the village.
The term “directly,” as used in this section 105.9, shall mean that the public
water main, storm sewer and public sanitary sewer extends to the portion of the
right-of-way immediately adjacent to the lot on which the proposed building
activity is to occur, or the public water main, storm sewer and public sanitary
sewer extends along an approved and recorded public water and sewer easement to
a location directly adjacent to the lot on which the proposed building activity
is to occur.
Exceptions: This provision does not apply to a proposed project: (1) on a lot
or parcel of land having an area of two and one-half acres or more, (2) on a
lot separated from the existing public water and sewer main by a railroad, or
(3) on a lot no portion of which is located closer than 1,000 feet to a public
water main and public sanitary sewer, provided that an approved well permit and
septic permit has been issued from the Lake County department of public health
and evidence of such permits have been provided to and approved by the
village.”
107.2.6 Add the following after the last sentence of section 107.2.6:
In addition to the site plan requirements of subsection 9-1-5H of the village
code, the following items shall be submitted in triplicate to the village’s
engineering and building department, prepared and sealed by an Illinois
registered professional engineer:
1.   A 24" x 36" plan/plans showing the following at an acceptable engineering
scale:
a)   All proposed site and utility work;
b)   All existing utility mains, service lines, manholes, property lines,
driveways, valves, fire hydrants, power lines/poles, etc;
c)   Benchmark and elevations converted to U.S.G.S. (“United States
geographical survey”) format;
d)   Existing and proposed grades and/or contours at one foot intervals on the
site as well as a minimum of fifty feet (50') into the adjacent properties,
including a plan for control of soil erosion and sediment, and a tree
protection plan for the project; and
e)   Location, size, and species of all trees on the lot.
2.   Specifications (or notes on plans) controlling the proposed work.
3.   Plat of survey, with scale, signed, and sealed by an Illinois registered
land surveyor.
4.   Wetland affidavit - signed and notarized.
5.   Parking - designation of all parking areas, with dimensions for public,
handicapped, employee and fire lanes, parking aisles, and parking spaces.
6.   Storm water management plan with on site storm water detention facility of
detention system to which the site drains, including storm water detention
calculations.
7.   Traffic study, if applicable, for access roads and interior roads.
8.   Flood plain/wetland mitigation - flood plain design if applicable and
wetland mitigation plan if applicable for the project site.
9.   Permits, if applicable for the following:
a)   I.E.P.A. for sewer and water extensions.
b)   Lake County department of transportation.
c)   I.D.O.T highway.
109.2 Delete the phrase “the schedule as established by the applicable
governing authority” and replace with the phrase “section 1-12-3 of the
municipal code”. Add the following at the end of the section:
“The village shall be reimbursed for additional costs related to more than two
inspections for any specific type of inspection required by permit. Fees for
re-inspections shall be as provided in section 1-12-3 of the municipal code”.
1103.12 Add the following new section 1103.12:
“1103.12 Schedule Of Inspections. It shall be the responsibility of the
contractor to request and receive approval of the following work, or any
construction work, before proceeding to the next phase of new construction:
1.   Site inspection before start of construction to verify site requirements
in place and construction fencing installed;
2.   Excavation and footing;
3.   Foundation, footing tile and damp proofing;
4.   Interior plumbing;
5.   Electrical;
6.   Heating;
7.   Steel and rough framing;
8.   Insulation, draft stopping, fire stopping;
9.   Sewer systems;
10.   Water service;
11.   Fire and life safety systems; and
12.   Final inspection on completion.
An original survey by a registered Illinois land surveyor shall be submitted to
the building department immediately after the installation of the foundation.
The survey shall indicate all property lines, easements, and all building lines
of record. The survey shall indicate the legal description of the premises, be
drawn on paper not smaller than 14" x 18" to a scale of not less than 30 feet
to the inch and shall describe to the nearest one tenth of a foot, the size,
shape and location of each structure on the premises, as well as the distances
of the structures from the front, side and rear lot lines. A digital copy and a
paper copy are required.
When a permit is issued for the construction remodeling, repair or alteration
of any building, the building official shall advise the contractor in writing
of the site requirements and inspections required for the particular work
involved. The contractor shall then be responsible to complete and maintain
site requirements, request inspections and receive approval of each phase of
construction. The contractors shall have a representative at the site during
the inspections.”
110.7 Add new section 110.7 as follows:
“Section 110.7 Structural Tests And Special Inspections. The building official,
in his or her sole discretion, may, in addition to those requirements for
structural tests and inspections set forth in chapter 17 of this international
building code, require certain additional structural tests and special
inspections and information, including without limitation construction
documents, plans, specifications, inspections and testing, for situations that
are special or unique to a particular construction project including without
limitation bluff and ravine projects, pools, beach projects, piers, trams,
cellular towers, monopoles or similar communications equipment and facilities,
and stairs on bluffs and ravines.”
111.1 Add the following phrase at the end of the first sentence:
“and the fee paid as set forth in section 1-12-3 of the municipal code.”
112.4 Add the following new section 112.4:
“Section 112.4 Private Sewage Disposal Systems. All private sewage disposal
systems and wells must be approved by the Lake County health department and the
village and must be constructed and maintained in compliance with all
applicable village, county and state regulations.”
113.1 Delete section 113.1 and replace as follows:
“113.1 General. The village architectural board of review shall hear and decide
appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations made by the building official
relative to the application and interpretation of this international building
code.”
114.4 Delete “as prescribed by law” and replace with “as provided in section 9-
1-22 of the municipal code.”
115.3 Delete section 115.3 and replace as follows:
“115.3 Unlawful Continuance. Any person who shall continue any work in or about
the structure after having been served with a stop work order, except such work
as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be liable for penalties as provided in chapter 13 of this
title.”
429 Add the following new section 429:
Section 429 Vacant Buildings
429.1 Maintenance Of Vacant Buildings. All windows, doors, and glass areas of
nonresidential buildings or structures, or portions thereof, that are vacant
for a period of 14 days or more shall be treated to prevent any view into the
interior of the building or structure by either of the following methods:
1. The uniform use of horizontal or vertical blinds, which blinds shall be
either white or opaque in color; or
2. The use of professionally applied adhesive film.
No other method to prevent any view into the interior of a vacant
nonresidential building or structure, including without limitation the use of
window soap, boards, paper, or plastic sheeting, shall be permitted unless
approved by the building code official.
903.2 Add the following at the end of section 903.2 Where Required and delete
the exception:
“903.2 Automatic Fire Sprinkler System Required.
1.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this international building code to
the contrary, in all areas of the village, automatic fire sprinkler systems
must be installed and maintained in all newly constructed buildings.
2.   Any existing building (other than single family and two family residential
dwellings) that undergoes any work or renovations that requires a building
permit, has a change of use or occupancy type, or is improved with an addition
to the building shall be required to add an approved fire sprinkler system if
the fire sprinkler system would be required by the applicable sections of the
2018 International Building Code. Except as otherwise specifically prescribed,
complete automatic fire sprinkler systems shall also be installed wherever
specified by this international building code.
3.   All existing non-residential buildings, mixed use buildings and multi-
family residential buildings with more than two residential units, shall
provide a complete automatic fire sprinkler system by January 1, 2026, except
that existing open-sided structures are exempt and existing churches (A-3 use
group section 303) are exempt. Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter or the
International Existing Building Code to the contrary, whenever more than 50% of
a building or tenant space is remodeled in a building to which fire sprinklers
are required to be installed by a date certain by this Section, the required
fire sprinklers shall be installed prior to the completion of the remodeling.
For the purposes of this section, the percentage of remodeling shall be defined
by the percentage of the drywall, plaster, or other interior finish material
that is removed from the walls within a tenant space.
4.   Whenever access to a building or structure will be unduly difficult
because of secured openings, and where immediate access will be required for
life saving and fire protection purposes, the fire code official may require an
approved key box to be in a readily accessible location approved by the fire
code official.”
5.   The owner of any building in which an automatic fire sprinkler system must
be installed pursuant to this Section 903.2 may request an exemption from the
installation requirement by applying to the Village Architectural Board of
Review. The Village Architectural Board of Review may grant exemptions from the
automatic fire sprinkler system installation requirements in this Section 903.2
in accordance with the following process and procedures:
a.   An application for an exemption must be submitted on an application form
supplied by the Village and must be accompanied by such fees as prescribed in
Section 1-12-3. Applications must include information and materials describing
and depicting the building’s size, location, hazards in or around the building,
occupant load, access for firefighting, fire resistance (as verified by a
design professional), and compliance with the Village Code’s requirements for
egress and other life-safety requirements. The Building Commissioner may
require that the owner submit additional information or materials with an
application when the Building Commissioner determines that consideration of the
application would be better served by inclusion of the additional information
or materials. The Building Commissioner may hire consultants to evaluate the
application and require the applicant to reimburse the Village for the cost of
the consultants’ work. The Building Commissioner may waive submission of
certain application information or materials when the Building Commissioner
determines that consideration of the application would not be unduly impeded by
the absence of the information or materials.
b.   After receipt of a complete application, as determined by the Building
Commissioner, and payment of the fee, the Architectural Board of Review shall
consider and take final action on the application at a meeting. At the meeting
at which the application is considered, the owner may provide information and
materials regarding the application, and the Building Commissioner, or their
designee, may provide information and materials regarding the application.
After considering the information and materials provided, the Architectural
Board of Review may approve the exemption, approve a partial exemption, approve
the exemption with conditions, approve an exemption for a limited period of
time, or deny the exemption.
c.   The Architectural Board of Review shall consider some or all of the
following criteria when taking final action on an application:
i.   Any unusual or practical difficulties in installing an automatic fire
sprinkler system in the building.
ii.   The size and location of the building and proximity to adjacent buildings
and uses.
iii.   Hazards in or around the building.
iv.   The occupancy classification and occupant load of the building.
v.   Access to the building for firefighting.
vi.   Whether the building meets or exceeds the Village Code’s requirements for
egress and other life-safety requirements.
vii.   Whether, notwithstanding the Village’s local amendments, the adopted
edition of the International Building Code and / or any other building codes
adopted by the Village would require an automatic fire sprinkler system in the
building.
d.   An owner aggrieved by final action by the Architectural Board of Review
may appeal the decision of the Architectural Board of Review to the Village
President and Board of Trustees by submitting a written appeal request to the
Building Commissioner within 15 days of final action by the Architectural Board
of Review. The Village President and Board of Trustees will review the request
for appeal, the application, the proceedings before the Architectural Board of
Review, and the criteria for granting an exemption in Section 903.2.5.c. At a
meeting the Village President and Board of Trustees will take final action on
the appeal and approve the exemption, approve a partial exemption, approve the
exemption with conditions, approve an exemption for a limited period of time,
deny the exemption, or remand the application back to the Architectural Board
of Review for further proceedings and final action by the Architectural Board
of Review.
907.2 Add the following text after the existing text within section 907.2:
The other sections of this code notwithstanding, all occupancies without a
complete fire sprinkler system shall have a complete fire alarm system. For all
occupancies, in addition to where otherwise required, smoke detectors must be
provided in janitors’ closets, closets with electrical panels, and other
locations where warranted by the degree of hazard in the determination of the
Code Official.
907.2.10.8 Add the following new section 907.2.10.8:
“907.2.10.8 Failure To Install. The following shall constitute a violation of
this section 907:
1. Failure to install or maintain in operating condition any smoke detector
required by this section;
2. Tampering with, removing, destroying, disconnecting or removing the
batteries from any installed smoke detector, except by the owner thereof or his
agent, or in the course of inspection and maintenance of the detector;
3.   Any act contrary to any provision of this section or failure to fully
comply with any requirement of this section; or
4.   Failure to fully comply with any notice, order, decision, permit or
regulation issued by the Lake Bluff fire chief and/or the building
commissioner/building official.
If a notice of violation is not complied with within 10 days, the Lake Bluff
fire chief, village administrator, building official, or their designee may
request the village attorney to institute the appropriate legal proceeding to
restrain, correct or abate such violation or to require removal or termination
of the unlawful use of the building or structure in violation of the provisions
of this section, or of any order or direction made pursuant thereto. The Lake
Bluff police department may make such arrests for any offense against this
section or order affecting the immediate safety of the public.”
915.1 Add the following sentence at the end of Section 915.1:
“Additionally, carbon dioxide protection must be installed where required by
State law.”
919 Add a new section 919 as follows:
“Section 919 Knox Box”
919.1 Knox Box. All commercial buildings and residential structures with
automatic fire alarms and/or fire sprinkler systems require a knox box.
Multiple knox boxes may be required by the building official. The fire
department shall approve the location of all knox boxes.
1030.5.3 Add the following new section 1030.5.3:
“1030.5.3 Window Well Covers. A guard rail shall be provided at grade around
all window wells, or a cover provided capable of supporting 500 pounds.”
1101.1 Add the following at the end of section 1101.1:
“When there is a conflict between (i) this chapter 11 of the international
building code and (ii) the Illinois environmental barriers act, 410 ILCS 25/
1 et seq., and the administrative rules adopted thereunder contained in 71 Ill.
adm. code 400, 110 et seq., also known as or the “Illinois accessibility code”,
the stricter of the two requirements shall be used.”
1301.1 Amend section 1301.1 as follows:
“Section 1301.1 Criteria. Buildings shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the current State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code.”
1808.1.1 Add the following new section 1808.1.1:
“1808.1.1 No Wood Footings And Foundations. The use of wood footings or
foundations shall not be allowed. All references to wood footings or
foundations in this chapter and international building code shall be deleted.”
2308.1.2 Add the following new section 2308.1.2:
“2308.1.2 Structural Engineered Wood Products. A structural engineered wood
product, as referred to in this code, is defined as wood construction members
other than that permitted in international building code “type 4" timber
construction.”
2308.1.3 Add the following new section 2308.1.3:
2308.1.3 Protection. When structural engineered wood products are used in floor
or ceiling assemblies, they shall not be left exposed. Protection shall be
provided by one of the following methods:
1.   A U.L. listed fire rated ceiling assembly rated at a minimum of two hours;
2.   An approved automatic sprinkler system;
3.   Other methods of equivalent protection acceptable to the building official
or his designee.
Additionally, the area between the ceiling and the floor above shall be
subdivided into areas of not more than 1,000 square feet with 5/8 inch type “X”
drywall or other means acceptable to the building official or his designee when
utilizing structural engineered wood products.
2701.2 Add the following new section 2701.2:
Amendments To NFPA 70. The 2017 edition of NFPA 70 (national electrical code)
have been adopted for use by the village pursuant to title 9, chapter 7 of the
village code.
2901 Delete the text of sections 2901, 2902 and 2903 in their entirety and
replace with the following:
2901.1 Delete section and replace with the following:
2901.1 Scope. The provisions of the Illinois plumbing license law, 225 ILCS
320/0.01 et seq. and the regulations adopted thereunder in 68 Ill. admin. code
750.100 et seq. and 77 Ill. admin. code 890.110 et seq. (collectively “Illinois
plumbing law”) shall regulate the licensing of plumbers, the registration of
irrigation contractors, and the design and installation of plumbing systems,
including but not limited to sanitary and storm drainage, sanitary facilities,
water supplies and storm water and sewage disposal. The village has adopted the
Illinois plumbing law with amendments pursuant to section 9-6-1 of the village
code.
2901.2 Add a new section 2901.2 as follows:
“2901.2 Amendments To Illinois Plumbing Law. The Illinois plumbing law is
amended as set forth in title 9, chapter 6 of the village code.”
3001.1 Amend section 3001.1 to read as follows:
3001.1 Scope. All elevator and conveyance design, installation, construction,
operation, inspection, testing, maintenance, alteration and repair of elevators
and conveyances shall comply with section 35 of the elevator safety and
regulation act (225 ILCS 312/35) of the state of Illinois and all adopted
administrative rules including but not limited to Illinois administrative code
1000 and all stated references in that act and administrative code shall be
adopted as reference as indicated in those documents. This chapter 30 shall be
applied if it is more restrictive than the Illinois elevator safety and
regulation act.
3002.4 Amend section 3002.4 to read as follows:
“3002.4 Elevator Car To Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher. In all buildings that
are required to have an elevator or elevators or that are equipped with an
elevator, at least one elevator shall be provided for fire department emergency
access to all floors. The elevator car shall be of such a size and arrangement
to accommodate an ambulance stretcher 24 inches by 84 inches with not less than
5 inch radius corners, in the horizontal, open position and shall be identified
by the international “star of life” symbol for emergency medical services. The
symbol shall be placed inside on both sides of the hoistway door frame.”
3110.1 Add new section 3110.1.1:
“3110.1.1 Vehicular Gates. All vehicular gates must provide for emergency
access by one of the following methods: and automatic strobe sensor, a key or
combination knox box, a knox key switch, or another means approved by the Code
Official.”
3315 Add the following new section 3315:
Section 3315 General Requirements
3315.1 Removal Of Debris. All waste materials shall be removed in a manner
which prevents injury or damage to persons, adjoining properties and public
rights of way. Adjoining streets and sidewalks shall be left broom clean at the
end of each working day.
33.15.2 Utility Connections. All service utility connections shall be
discontinued and capped at the main in accordance with the rules and
requirements of the authority having jurisdiction.
Appendix C Adopted by reference.
Appendix F Adopted by reference.
Appendix H Adopted by reference.
Appendix I Adopted by reference.
Appendix K Adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2017-
1, 2-13-2017; Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Adoption Of The International Residential Code By Reference
9-3-2: International Residential Code On File
9-3-3: Amendments To The International Residential Code
9-3-1: ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE BY REFERENCE:
The 2018 edition of the International Residential Code, as promulgated and
published by the International Code Council, Inc. (“international residential
code”), is hereby adopted by reference. The international residential code
applies to all single-family detached dwellings and two-family dwellings and
all buildings and structures accessory thereto that are expressly regulated by
the international residential code.
Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms
of the international residential code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set forth in this code with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter prescribed. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-
2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-3-2: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the international residential code, herein adopted,
are available for public use and inspection at the office of the village clerk.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-3-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The international residential code, adopted by reference pursuant to this
chapter, is amended as set forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers
used in this section shall refer to the like numbered sections of the
international building code:
R101.1 Delete section R101.1 and replace as follows:
“Section R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the international
residential code of the village of Lake Bluff, Illinois, hereinafter referred
to as “this code.”“
R105.2 Delete section R105.2, not including subsections 105.2.1 through
105.2.3.
R105.3 Add the following to the end of section R105.3:
“8.   The following items shall be submitted in one digital pdf copy and three
paper copies to the village’s engineering and building department, prepared and
sealed by an Illinois registered professional engineer:
A.   A 24" x 36" plan/plans showing the following at an acceptable engineering
scale:
(I)   All proposed site and utility work;
(ii)   All existing utility mains, service lines, manholes, property lines,
driveways, valves, fire hydrants, power lines/poles, etc.;
(iii)   Benchmark and elevations converted to U.S.G.S. (United States
geographic survey);
(iv)   Existing and proposed grades and/or contours shall be provided at
increments necessary to confirm proper site drainage as well as a minimum of 50
feet into the adjacent properties. (Include a soil erosion and sediment
control, tree protection plan for the project.); and
(v)   Location, size, and species of all trees on the lot.
B.   Specifications (or notes on plans) controlling the proposed work.
C.   Plat of survey, with scale, signed, and sealed by an Illinois registered
land surveyor.
D.   Wetland affidavit - signed and notarized.
E.   Parking - designation of all parking areas, with dimensions for public,
handicapped, employee and fire lanes, parking aisles, and parking spaces.
F.   Storm water management plan with on site storm water detention facility of
detention system to which the site drains, including storm water detention
calculations.
G.   Traffic study, if applicable, for access roads and interior roads.
H.   Flood plain/wetland mitigation - flood plain design if applicable and
wetland mitigation plan if applicable for the project site.
I.   Permits, if applicable for the following:
(I)   I.E.P.A. for sewer and water extensions.
(ii)   Lake County department of transportation.
(iii)   I.D.O.T highway.”
R105.7 Delete section R105.7 and replace as follows:
“Section R105.7 Posting Of Permit. Permit placard is to be posted on the site
of operations, visible at all times from the street until the final inspection
is completed. One copy of the architectural plans approved by the village with
all requirements noted for contractors’ and inspectors’ reference is to be on
site at all times throughout construction.”
R105.10 Add the following new section R105.10:
“Section R105.10 License. No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
entity shall engage as a general contractor, or subcontractor for electrical,
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, sewer work, water, septic or sewage
disposal systems, storm sewer, fence, concrete, driveway, patio, roadway, or
construction work of any nature and description in the village, unless licensed
to do business in the village. Fees for such licenses shall be as set forth in
section 1-12-3 of the municipal code.”
R106.2 Add the following to the end of section R106.2:
“Additional site plan requirements to be determined by the building official
for each permit, and may include one or more of the following:
1.   Fencing is to be installed as listed on the approved site plan and shall
include a gate for access and ability to enclose the site at the end of each
working day. Commercial fencing is to be a minimum of five-foot high chain link
fence properly supported. Residential fence is to be a minimum of a four-foot
high green construction fence type fence properly supported;
2.   All open excavated holes and drops are to be completely encircled at a
minimum with a four-foot high safety fencing;
3.   Silt fence is required to prevent silt from causing a nuisance to
neighboring properties, discharge into the storm sewer system or creating a
hazard;
4.   A construction drive shall be installed at the start of the job with a
gravel base to provide contractor parking to the extent possible to prevent mud
and debris from being tracked onto streets;
5.   Dirt and debris are to be kept off of street at all times a dumpster or
trash container shall be provided throughout construction;
6.   A portable toilet shall be maintained at all times unless the building
owner allows use of an existing facility. The portable toilet is to be placed
to least impact the neighbors and a minimum of 10 feet off the lot line;
7.   All side walks damaged during construction are to be replaced. In areas
where a new home is constructed all the sidewalks along the property are to be
replaced unless determined otherwise by the building official. Damaged side
walks are to be replaced with a minimum of a four-inch bed of gravel and a
minimum of five-inch thick concrete panel. Side walk panels in drive areas are
to be replaced with a minimum of seven-inch thick concrete;
8.   All side walks damaged during construction shall be topped with temporary
bituminous pavement until final concrete can be placed;
9.   Granular back fill shall be required for all street, road edge, sidewalk,
driveway, slab, or patio areas as determined by the building official.
10.   Any street excavation shall be topped with a temporary bituminous
pavement within 48 hours of excavation. A permanent minimum of three-inch
bituminous layer, compacted in two lifts, with saw cut edges, is required as
part of the final approval. (A road opening fee per the village comprehensive
fee schedule contained in title 1, chapter 12 of the village code will be
accessed if road opening is performed.);
11.   Damage to parkway or neighbors’ property due to construction shall be
repaired as soon as weather permits;
12.   Traffic and parking requirements as noted on plan are to be followed
throughout construction process;
13.   Temporary electric services are to be installed to prevent the use of
generators;
14.   Tree protection is to be installed per the site plan and may include
(fencing, wrapping of trunk, root cutting before excavation trimming limbs for
access, feeding, aerating, directional boring under trees with services);
15.   Materials are to be stored on private property, storage of materials in
the public right of way is not permitted unless prior approval is granted by
the village;
16.   Dust of any type is to be controlled by use of water or other forms of
containment so not to cause a nuisance;
17.   Sump discharge is to have one or more of the following: open site
connection, storm sewer connection, drywell or discharge to approved area on
the property. (Sump water will not be allowed to discharge to a location that
will cause a hazard in freezing conditions such as drives, sidewalks or
streets.);
18.   As built drawings are required for all exterior water, sanitary and storm
service lines from the foundation wall of the structure being serviced to the
point of connection with the existing service stub or existing main. The as
built drawing is required regardless of the length of the installation of the
new portion of the utility service.
18.1   The drawings must be to scale and be no smaller than 1" = 20'. The scale
must be indicated on the submitted drawings.
18.2   The drawing must be neat, clean and legible. Multiple service lines can
be shown on the same drawing.
18.3   The minimum acceptable drawing size is 81/2" x 11" for alterations and
24'’x36'’ for additions and new construction.”
18.4   The pipe size and type must be indicated for each service line.
18.5   The location of the installed service line(s) must be tied to a minimum
of two exterior property corners and two exterior foundation corners within an
accuracy of 1 foot.
18.6   The locations of all fittings, cleanouts, and B-boxes must be identified
within an accuracy of one-foot.
18.7   The depth of the utility service below final grade must be indicated at
all grade and at a minimum of every 50 feet along the length of each installed
service.
18.8   All prominent topographical features such as exterior build foundations
lines, sidewalks, back of curb, edge of pavement and existing manholes must be
indicated if these features are within 20 feet of any portion of the utility
service line work covered by the building permit.
18.9   The means of connecting the new portion of the utility line to the
existing main or stub must be identified (coupling types, tees, wyes, etc.).
18.10   The lower right hand corner of the submitted drawing must contain the
following information: street address where the work is being performed; the
building permit number; the date of the sketch preparation; the name and
address and telephone number of the general contractor and subcontractor.”
R109.5 Add the following new section R109.5:
“Section R109.5 Schedule Of Inspections. It shall be the responsibility of the
contractor to request and receive approval of the following work, or any
construction work, before proceeding to the next phase of new construction. The
following is a list of required inspections but may not be all inclusive and
additional inspections may be required as set forth by the building official:
1. Site inspection before start of construction to verify site requirements in
place and construction fencing installed;
2. Excavation and footing;
3. Foundation, footing tile and damp-proofing;
4. Interior plumbing;
5. Electrical;
6. Heating;
7. Steel and rough framing;
8. Insulation, draft stopping, fire stopping;
9. Sewer systems;
10. Water service;
11. Fire and life safety systems;
12. Final inspection on completion.
An original survey by a registered Illinois land surveyor shall be submitted to
the building official immediately after the installation of the foundation. The
survey shall indicate all property lines, easements, and all building lines of
record. The survey shall indicate the legal description of the premises, be
drawn on paper not smaller than 14" x 18" to a scale of not less than 30 feet
to the inch and shall describe to the nearest one tenth of a foot, the size,
shape and location of each structure on the premises, as well as the distances
of the structures from the front, side and rear lot lines.
When a permit is issued for the construction remodeling, repair or alteration
of any building, the building official shall advise the contractor in writing
of the site requirements and inspections required for the particular work
involved. The contractor shall then be responsible to complete and maintain
site requirements, request inspections and receive approval of each phase of
construction. The contractors shall have a representative at the site during
the inspections.”
R109.6 Add new section R109.6 Structural Tests And Special Inspections as
follows:
R109.6 Structural Tests And Special Inspections. The building official, in his
or her sole discretion, may, in addition to those requirements for structural
tests and inspections set forth in chapter 17 of the international building
code, require certain additional structural tests and special inspections and
information, including without limitation construction documents, plans,
specifications, inspections and testing, for situations that are special or
unique to a particular construction project including without limitation bluff
and ravine projects, pools, beach projects, piers, trams, cellular towers,
monopoles or similar communications equipment and facilities, and stairs on
bluffs and ravines.
R112.1 Delete section R112.1 and replace as follows:
“R112.1 Board Of Appeals. The Village of Lake Bluff Architectural Board of
Review shall serve as the board of appeals for this building code.”
R115.1 Removal Of Debris. All waste materials shall be removed in a manner
which prevents injury or damage to persons, adjoining properties and public
rights of way. Adjoining streets and sidewalks shall be left broom clean at the
end of each working day.
R115.2 Utility Connections. All service utility connections shall be
discontinued and capped at the respective utility main in accordance with the
rules and requirements of the authority having jurisdiction.
R301.2 Complete table R301.2(1) as follows:
Table R301.2(1)
Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria
Ground snow load          30 psf minimum
Wind speed                115 mph
Seismic design category   A
Weathering                Severe
Frost line depth          42 inches
Termite                   Slight to moderate
Decay                     Slight to moderate
Winter design temperature 0 degrees
Ice shield underlayment   Yes
Flood hazard              See local flood zone map
Air freezing index        2000
Mean annual temperature   50 degrees
 
R310.2 At the end of the first paragraph of section R310.2, add the following
sentence:
“A guard rail at grade around window wells or a cover capable of supporting
five hundred (500) pounds shall be provided.”
R313.1 Delete the exception.
R313.2 Delete sections R313.2 and R313.2.1 and replace as follows:
“R313.2 One And Two Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems.
Notwithstanding anything contained in sections R313.2 and R313.2.1 in the
international residential code:
R313.2.1 Fire Sprinkler Systems. All new single-family, single family attached
with two or more units and two family or more dwellings constructed shall have
a fire sprinkler system installed in compliance with the latest edition of the
NFPA 13D, NFPA 13R, or NFPA 13 (as required) and the international residential
code with the following local amendments:
1.   Fire sprinkler suppression systems shall be installed throughout all areas
in all new single family, single family attached with two or more units, two
family or more residential dwelling units and multi family dwelling buildings
and townhouses.
2.   Fire sprinkler suppression systems shall be installed throughout all areas
in all residential unit additions and existing structure where the total
addition and/or project totals 75% of the finished product as measured by the
calculations for the floor area ratio outlined in section 10-5-6 of the Lake
Bluff zoning code. Square footage for an existing structure is to be calculated
on areas where wall and ceilings are removed down to structural members.
3.   A weather proof audio-visual device shall be installed on the exterior of
the structure as part of the fire sprinkler suppression system so that the
operation of the fire sprinkler suppression system will cause the audio-visual
device to be sensed from the fronting street. A bell shall be installed in the
interior of the structure, and shall be mounted, if possible, on the HVAC
return air system, to reverberate the sound of a bell throughout the structure,
to signal the activation of water flow to the sprinkler system. Bells may be
required on each level of the structure.
4.   Fire sprinkler suppression systems shall be installed in all attached
garages and attached screen rooms, other attached rooms and multi season rooms
of all aforementioned dwellings and attached porches and the like with
fireplaces. Dry sidewall or pendant sprinklers could be used in all these
attached garages, screen rooms and multi season rooms of these dwellings. Fire
sprinkler suppression systems shall be installed in all new accessory
structures over 1,000 square feet as measured by the calculations for the floor
area ratio outlined in section 10-5-6 of the Lake Bluff zoning regulations,
subject to review by village building department and fire department staff.
5.   Fire sprinkler suppression systems shall be installed in all new detached
accessory structures with habitable rooms as defined in section 10-1-2 of the
Lake Bluff zoning code with exceptions provided in this section.
6.   Any and all multi-purpose piping systems (potable supply and water used
for fire suppression) or networking systems as defined by the NFPA 13D shall be
installed using type L copper. Stand alone sprinkler systems are permitted to
use chlorinated polyvinyl chloride (CPVC) per ASTM F 422 or other approved
materials as listed in the latest edition of the NFPA 13D.
7. Prior to village plan review, fire sprinkler suppression system plans shall
be stamped and sealed by a National Institute For Certification In Engineering
Technology (NICET) level 3 engineer or an equal qualification approved by
NICET.
8. Fire sprinkler suppression system contractors shall be licensed by the state
of Illinois.”
R314.3 Add the following location number 4:
“4. A heat detector, interconnected to the building smoke alarm system shall be
provided for all attached garages, three and four season rooms.”
R402.1 Delete section R402.1 and replace with the following:
“R402.1 Wood Foundations. The use of wood foundations is not permitted.”
R403.1 Add the following at the end of section R403.1:
“The minimum size footings shall be ten 10 inches (10") x twenty inches (20")
20 inches. The use of wood footings is not allowed.”
R404.1 Add the following at the end of the section R404.1:
“The minimum thickness for a foundation wall is 10 inches and there shall be
water shield and waterproofing material installed between the footing and the
foundation wall”.
R405.3 Add the following new section R405.3:
“Section R405.3 Basements And Crawlspaces. Basements and crawl spaces require
drain tile, SDR 38, ASTM F840 (or approved equal) with approved couplings.
Drain tile shall be bedded on two inches of washed stone, with a minimum 12
inches of one-half (½) inch to three-fourth (3/4) inch washed stone cover.”
R502.14 Add the following new section R502.14:
Section R502.14 Structural Engineered Wood Products. A structural engineered
wood product is defined as wood construction members other than that permitted
in the international building code “type 4" timber construction. When
structural engineered wood products are used in floor or ceiling assemblies,
they shall not be left exposed. Fire protection shall be provided by one of the
following methods:
1.   A ceiling complying with the interior covering requirements of the
international residential code but at least a two hour fire resistance rating;
2.   A U.L. listed suspended ceiling assembly rated a minimum of two hour;
3.   An automatic sprinkler system designed per the current N.F.P.A. #13,
sprinkler standard, and approved by the building official or his designee, and
installed by an approved sprinkler contractor permitted to work in the village
of Lake Bluff; or
4.   Other methods of equivalent protection acceptable to the building official
or his designee.
Additionally, the area between the ceiling and the floor above shall be
subdivided into areas of not more than 1,000 square feet with 5/8" type “X”
drywall or other means acceptable to the building commissioner or his designee
when utilizing structurally engineered products.
R506.1.1 Add the following new section R506.1.1:
Section R506.1.1 Floors. All garage floor slabs shall be a minimum of five
inches with welded wire reinforcement mesh. All basement floor slabs and slabs
on ground shall be a minimum of four inches with a six mil vapor barrier and
welded wire mesh.
Part VII - Plumbing Administration
Delete the text of this part and replace with the following:
Refer to title 9, chapter 6 of the village code.
Part VIII - Electrical
Delete the text of this part and replace with the following:
Refer to title 9, chapter 7 of the village code.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
Chapter 44 - Referenced Standards
1.   Delete “international plumbing code” and substitute and replace with
“Illinois plumbing code”. Law as defined in section 2901.1 of the international
building code as amended by title 9 of the village code.
2.   Delete “international zoning code” without substitution.
Appendix A Adopted by reference.
Appendix B Adopted by reference.
Appendix C Adopted by reference.
Appendix G Adopted by reference.
Appendix K Adopted by reference.
Appendix O Adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023; Ord. 2023-29, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 4
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Adoption Of Property Maintenance Code
9-4-2: Amendments To The International Property Maintenance Code
9-4-1: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the village the 2018 International Property
Maintenance Code, as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the “property maintenance
code”) which is incorporated as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-
2013; amd. Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The following sections of the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code are
hereby amended, revised, and changed as follows: (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd.
Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
101.1 Delete section 101.1 and replace as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the international property
maintenance code of the village of Lake Bluff hereinafter referred to as this
"code."
102.3 Delete section 102.3 and replace as follows:
"102.3 Application Of Other Codes. Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
structure, or change of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of all applicable and adopted codes and ordinances of
the village of Lake Bluff and any applicable law of the state of Illinois.
Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any
provision of title 10 of the Lake Bluff municipal code (zoning regulations)."
103.1 Delete section 103.1 and replace as follows:
"103.1 General. The building official shall be responsible for the enforcement
of the property maintenance code."
103.5 Delete section 103.5 and replace as follows:
103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the department in
carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as indicated in
section
1-12-3 of the municipal code.
106.4 Delete section 106.4 and replace as follows:
106.4 Violation Penalties. Any person or property owner who shall violate a
provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in section
9-1-22 of the municipal code.
110.1 Delete section 110.1 and replace as follows:
"110.1 General. The code official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the code official judgment after
review is so deteriorated, or dilapidated or damaged or has become so out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary, or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the
structure, to demolish and remove such structure; or if such structure is
capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or
to board up and secure and hold for future repair or to demolish and remove the
owner's option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of
any structure for a period of more than 6 months, the code official shall order
the owner to demolish and remove such structure or board it up for future
repair. Boarding the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond 60
days, unless approved by the building official."
111.1 Delete section 111 and replace as follows:
Section 111.1 Application For Appeal. A person shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the code official to the village of Lake Bluff architectural board
of review. The applicant shall make written notice for the appeal and such
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted or the provisions
of the code do not fully apply.
202 Amend section 202 by adding the following definitions in the proper
alphabetical order:
Commercial Vehicle. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-hire or
not-for-hire, that is either in excess of 8,000 pounds in gross weight
(including vehicle and maximum load) (class I commercial vehicle) or less than
8,000 pounds in gross weight (including vehicle and maximum load) and has
property that is stored and/or transported in a manner that is not safe or not
completely enclosed within the vehicle or trailer and/or may or may not have
exterior commercial signage (class II commercial vehicle).
Recreational Vehicle. Any vehicle or boat designed for living quarters,
recreation, or human habitation and not used as a commercial vehicle
specifically including but without limitation boats and other watercraft,
camper trailers, motorized homes, off-the-road vehicles, racing cars and racing
cycles, travel trailers, truck campers, snowmobiles, tent trailers and vehicle
trailers.
Rubbish. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include accumulated non used items commonly referred to as "junk",
the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible
materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree
branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery and
dust and other similar materials.
302.2 Delete section 302.2 and replace as follows:
302.2 Grading And Drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon and also to prevent the
unnecessary runoff of stormwater to neighboring properties.
Exception: Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
302.2.1 Add new section 302.2.1 as follows:
"302.2.1 Obstructions Across A Watercourse. It shall be unlawful to block or
impede the flow of water in any type of manmade or natural watercourse
including but not limited to ravines, ditches and swales."
302.4 Delete section 302.4 and replace as follows:
302.4 Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds, grass or plant growth in excess of 8 inches in height. All noxious weeds
shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens as well as native restoration type
plantings and grasses. At no time shall any leaves, weeds, cut grass,
vegetation, plants and like materials be disposed of in or on any ravine,
bluff, watercourse, or public property.
Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and costs of such removal shall be
paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property. If said costs are not
paid by the owner or agent then the village of Lake Bluff shall charge any and
all costs, including fines and legal fees, associated with the violation
remediation against the real estate upon which the structure is located and
shall be a lien upon such real estate.
302.4.1 Add the following new section:
302.4.1 Obstructions. Any and all landscaping, trees, shrubs, bushes and
vegetative matter and any other object or thing shall not obstruct or impede
the use of or vision of any public way, street, alley, sidewalk or fire hydrant
and firefighting equipment and fire sprinkler and standpipe connections. Clear
access of at least four feet in all directions must be provided for fire
hydrants, firefighting equipment, fire sprinkler and standpipe connections.
302.10 Add new section 302.10 as follows:
302.10 Outdoor Storage And Parking Of Vehicles. The outdoor parking or storage
of a recreational vehicle, or an enclosed or open trailer, on private property
in a residence district for more than five consecutive days, or for more than
five days within any 30-day period, unless the vehicle is parked in the rear or
side yard of the lot and does not substantially impair the supply of light or
air to adjacent properties.
Outdoor parking or storage of a recreational vehicle on public property in a
residence district between the hours of 9:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. shall be
prohibited.
The outdoor parking or storage of a class I or a class II commercial vehicle
and any business related trailers (open or closed) shall be prohibited on
public and private property in a residence district between the hours of 9:00
P.M. and 6:00 A.M.
302.11 Add new section 302.11 as follows:
302.11 Outdoor Storage Units In Residential Districts. Outdoor portable storage
containers and units that may be used for personal storage are limited in time
they can remain on site to 2 months or 60 calendar days. User must notify the
village of the date that it will be brought in and the location of the
container or unit must be approved by the building official.
304.1.1 At the end of section 304.1.1 add the following:
14.   Any condition deemed unsafe, hazardous, unsanitary or a fire hazard by
the code official.
304.14 Delete section 304.14 and replace as follows:
304.14 Insect Screens. During the period from April 15 to October 15, every
door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation habitable
rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where product to
be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed,
manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly
fitting screens not less than 16 mesh per inch and every screen door used for
insect control shall have a self closing device in good working condition.
308.3.1 Delete section 308.3.1 and replace as follows:
308.3.1 Garbage Facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of the
following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit; or
an approved leak proof, covered, outside garbage container consistent with the
village's refuse regulations.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
501.1 Delete section 501.1 and replace as follows:
Section 501.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided. If there
should be a conflict between any listed requirements and those as required by
the Illinois state plumbing code, as adopted by the village and amended
pursuant to title 9, chapter 6 of the village code, then the most restrictive
requirement would apply.
(Ord. 2017-1, 2-13-2017)
502.5 Delete section 502.5 and replace as follows:
Section 502.5 Public Toilet Facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be
maintained in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the
state of Illinois plumbing code, as adopted by the village and amended pursuant
to title 9, chapter 6 of the village code. Except for periodic maintenance or
cleaning, public access and use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at
all times during the occupancy of the premises.
505.1 Delete section 505.1 and replace as follows:
Section 505.1 General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to
either a public water system or to an approved private water system. All
kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs, and showers shall be
supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the
state of Illinois plumbing code, as adopted by the village and amended pursuant
to title 9, chapter 6 of the village code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
602.2 Delete section 602.2, including the exception, and replace as follows:
“602.2 Residential Occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F in all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in table 301.2(1) of the international
residential code. Cooking appliances and heating devices shall not be used to
provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.”
602.3 Delete section 602.3 and replace as follows:
602.3 Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases
or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed
or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during
the period from October 15 to May 1 to maintain a temperature of not less than
68°F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
602.4 Delete section 602.4 except for the exceptions, which shall remain, and
replace as follows:
602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from October 15 to May 1 to maintain a temperature
of not less than 65°F during the period the spaces are occupied.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
604.3.1.1 Amend section 604.3.1.1 and replace as follows:
604.3.1.1 Electrical Equipment. Add the following sentence at the end of the
paragraph. All work shall also be in compliance with the 2014 national
electrical code (NFPA 70), as adopted by the village and amended pursuant to
title 9, chapter 7 of the village code.
604.3.2.1 Amend section 604.3.2.1 and replace as follows:
604.3.2.1 Electrical Equipment. Add the following sentence at the end of the
section before the exception: All work shall also be in compliance with the
2014 national electrical code (NFPA 70), as adopted by the village and amended
pursuant to title 9, chapter 7 of the village code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
606.1 Delete section 606.1 and replace as follows:
606.1 General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained in
compliance with ASME A17.1 and the state of Illinois conveyance and elevator
rules and regulations. The most current certificate of inspection shall be on
display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office of the building
operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the code
official. The inspection and tests shall be performed at not less than the
periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1, appendix N, state of Illinois
conveyance and elevator rules and regulations and except where otherwise
specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
705.1 Delete section 705.1 and replace as follows:
“705.1 General. Carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in dwellings in
accordance with the International Fire Code, the International Residential
Code, as each may be amended, the ordinance of the Village of Lake Bluff, and
laws of the State of Illinois.”
Appendix A Adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption Of International Fire Code
9-5-2: International Fire Maintenance Code On File
9-5-3: Amendments To The International Fire Code
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The regulations of the 2018 edition of the International Fire Code, as
published by the International Code Council (“International Fire Code”) is
hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set forth herein as the regulations
governing the safeguard of life and property from the hazards of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices; and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the
use or occupancy of existing or proposed new buildings or premises in the
Village with such amendments as are hereafter set forth. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-
2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023; Ord. 2023-29, 12-11-2023)
9-5-2: INTERNATIONAL FIRE MAINTENANCE CODE ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the international fire code, herein adopted, are
available for public use and inspection at the office of the village clerk.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-5-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The following sections of the 2018 International Fire Code are hereby amended,
revised, and changed as follows:
101.1 Delete section and replace as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the fire code of the village
of Lake Bluff, hereafter referred to as “this code”.
102.7 Delete section and replace as follows:
102.7 Referenced Codes And Standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code, listed in chapter 47 and appendixes B, D, E, F, I and J as well as
all of the most current NFPA standards are hereby incorporated into the village
of Lake Bluff building code and shall be considered part of the requirements of
this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences
occur between the provisions of this code and referenced standards, the more
restrictive standard shall apply. The most current edition of the National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) standards, except NFPA 1 and NFPA 5000, are
hereby adopted outright and in whole and if differences occur between this code
and the standards then the most restrictive shall apply.
104.10.2 Add new section as follows:
“104.10.2 Reporting Hazardous Locations. Any person discovering the evidence of
spontaneous heating or other abnormal heating of any kind in any building,
marine vessel, appliance, apparatus, tank, or open stack or pile, or any person
upon discovering or being apprised of an uncontrolled hazardous gas leak or
hazardous material or flammable and/or combustible liquid spill, shall
immediately notify the village.”
106.4.1 Add new section as follows:
“Section 106.4.1 Plan Review And Site Inspection Fee Schedule. Each applicant
shall pay those plan review and site inspection fees for review and site
inspection by the village set forth in section 1-12-3 of the municipal code. No
part of said fees shall be refundable. Plan review fees shall include re-
reviews, along with preliminary site visits up to a total of three (3)
inspections for the each category. Contact the village of Lake Bluff for the
plan review and site inspection fee schedule. Submit fire sprinkler shop
drawings and construction documents for plan review.
Note: In addition to the review fees listed, the applicant shall pay, prior to
the issuance of any permit, the actual costs and expenses incurred by village
of Lake Bluff for extraordinary reviews of plans or specifications beyond the
review customarily involved in the usual course of such plan reviews. Such
costs and expenses shall include actual review fees by consultants or outside
contractors or time spent by village of Lake Bluff staff. Village of Lake Bluff
staff time shall be billed at an hourly rate to be determined by the code
official or designee.”
301.3 Add new section as follows:
“301.3 Items Not Specifically Covered. Whenever or wherever a condition is
found in any building, lot, or premises, that in the opinion of the fire
official is not specifically covered by the provisions of this title, but that
requires correction or removal for the protection of the occupants or the
public, the fire official shall order such conditions be corrected or removed
and the owner or occupant of such buildings, lots, or premises shall comply
with such orders.”
503.2.3 Delete section and replace as follows:
“503.2.3 Surfaces. Fire apparatus access roads or fire lanes shall have an
approved, by the fire code official, surface capable of supporting the weights
of appropriate fire apparatus. Fire apparatus roads shall be pitched in such a
manner as to allow the runoff of water and eliminate the potential of standing
water. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain the
surface in a usable condition at all times, including the removal of snow.”
503.7 Add section as follows:
Section 503.7 Adopt IFC appendix D - fire apparatus access roads.
506 Delete section and replace as follows:
Section 506 Key Boxes
506.1 When Required. When access to, or within a structure, or an area unduly
difficult because of secured openings, or to gain access to fire protection
controls, and where immediate access is necessary for life saving or fire
fighting purposes, the building official shall require a minimum of one key
lock box to be installed at a height not to exceed six (6) feet, in an
accessible and approved location. All buildings with automatic fire alarm
systems and/or automatic fire suppression sprinkler systems shall have
installed an approved key lock box for access by the village. The key lock box
shall be of an approved type and shall contain keys to gain access as required
by the building official.
506.2 Key Lock Box Maintenance. The operator of the building shall immediately
notify the building official and provide the new key when a lock is changed or
re-keyed. The key to such lock shall be secured in the key lock box. The users
shall be responsible for the proper installation and maintenance of such key
lock boxes, at their expense, and shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless
the village, and their officers, employees and agents from any liability with
respect to such key lock boxes.
507.1.1 Delete section and replace as follows:
“507.1.1 General. All water distribution facilities including piping, fittings,
hydrants, valves, devices, well pumps, and other needful appurtenances shall be
subject to approval of the village and the fire code official and shall be
installed according to the standards herein adopted. A water supply system
shall be capable of supplying the hydrants prior to the construction of
structures. It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, use or occupy any structure
that has been deemed to have inadequate water supply.”
507.3.2 Add section as follows:
507.3.2 Adopt appendix B - fire flow for buildings.
507.5.7 Add new section as follows:
“507.5.7 Identification. All fire hydrants public or private shall be
identified with a number as issued by the village, an approved pavement marker
delineating the fire hydrant location and caps painted a color approved by the
fire code official. This color shall correspond to the gallons per minute of
water flow available from that hydrant.”
507.5.8 Add new section as follows:
“507.5.8 Unauthorized Use. It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize any
firefighting device such as a fire hydrant, drafting hydrant, dry hydrant, or
other water supply appurtenances designed for fire suppression operations
without the express permission of the building official.”
609.5 Add new section as follows:
“609.5 Required Kitchen Hood Fire Suppression Systems. All required commercial
or other occupancy kitchen exhaust hood and duct system shall be protected with
an approved wet chemical fire suppression system installed and maintained per
NFPA 17, and UL 300 standard. Every required automatic fire suppression system,
when activated shall transmit a fire alarm signal to a U.L. listed and approved
central monitoring station via an approved fire alarm system.”
609.6 Add new section as follows:
“609.6 Maintenance. Commercial kitchen exhaust systems shall be cleaned to
remove deposits of residue and grease in the system at intervals specified in
the cleaning schedule required to be submitted in accordance with the
mechanical code listed in chapter 47. Thorough cleaning of ducts, hoods and
fans shall require scraping, brushing or other positive cleaning methods.”
903.2 Delete section and replace as follows:
903.2 Automatic Fire Suppression System Required. Notwithstanding anything
contained in this international fire code to the contrary, automatic fire
suppression systems shall be required as provided in section 903.2 of section
9-2-3 and section R313.2 of section 9-3-3 of the municipal code.
903.4.2.1 Add new section as follows:
“Section 903.4.2.1 Strobe Lights. A strobe light shall be installed on the
exterior of all occupancies protected by a fire sprinkler system. The strobe
light shall be located directly over the fire department connection and next to
the 10-inch exterior bell or in a location approved by the fire code official.
In a new multi-occupancy structure or the same type structure that is renovated
or remodeled, an additional strobe light shall be installed at an approved
exterior location for each unit. These devices shall activate on a water flow
only. The strobe light shall be clearly visible from the fire department’s
normal access route and shall be labeled as “water flow”. The type, number of
appliances and location of the strobe lights and bells shall be approved by the
building official.”
903.4.2.1.1 Add new section as follows:
903.4.2.1.1 Alarm Notification Appliance For All New NFPA 13D Fire Sprinkler
Systems For One And Two Family Dwellings. A weather proof audio visual device
shall be installed on the exterior of the structure as part of the fire
suppression system so that the operation of the fire sprinkler suppression
system will cause the audio visual device to be sensed from the fronting
street. A minimum of a 6 inch bell shall be installed in the interior of the
structure, and shall be mounted, if possible on the HVAC return air system, to
reverberate the sound of the bell to signal that there is an activation of
water flow to the sprinkler system.
903.4.2.2 Add new section as follows:
“903.4.2.2 Building Notification. Alarm indicating appliances audio visual
devices shall be provided, seen and heard in all areas of every building per
NFPA 72. All sprinklered buildings shall be provided with occupant notification
devices. This will provide full building notification per NFPA 72.”
903.4.2.3 Add new section as follows:
“903.4.2.3 Inspector’s Test Valve Accessibility And Identification. Fire
sprinkler system inspector’s test valves shall be accessible at all times and
located no more than 6 feet above the finished floor unless approved otherwise
by the fire code official. On multiple riser systems, test valves shall be
marked as to which riser and area it tests.”
903.4.3 Delete section and replace as follows:
“903.4.3 Floor Control Valves. In multi story buildings, approved supervised
indicating floor control valves with water flow switches shall be provided for
each floor at the point of connection to the riser. In large multi tenant
buildings, approved control valves with water flow switches shall be provided
for each tenant. This will make it easier for the fire department personnel to
locate the fire and will eliminate birdcage sprinkler systems where the alarm
is for the whole building.”
903.4.3.1 Add new section as follows:
903.4.3.1 Sprinkler Control Valves. All new and existing sprinkler control
valves shall be equipped with electronic supervision (tamper switches) in
accordance with NFPA 72. All new tamper switches installed shall have the
capability to self restore. All supervisory signals shall be transmitted
directly to the village of Lake Bluff fire communication center or an approved
and U.L. listed central monitoring station.
903.7 Add new section as follows:
Section 903.7 Hydraulic Nameplate. By each hydraulically calculated area, on
each drawing, provide a copy of the hydraulic nameplate. This will make it
easier to check the hydraulics of the sprinkler system for future building or
storage changes.
903.8 Add new section as follows:
Section 903.8 Fire Pump Test Header. Provide an outside test header on all fire
pump installations. An OS&Y control valve shall be provided on all fire pump
test headers.
903.9 Add new section as follows:
“903.9 Hydraulic Calculations. Provide a minimum 5 psi minimum safety factor in
the fire protection system hydraulic calculation. The system demand shall be 5
psi minimum below the seasonal low water flow test supply. The safety factor
will allow for low pressures in the water supply. By each hydraulic calculated
area, on each drawing, provide a copy of the hydraulic nameplate. This will
make it easier to check the hydraulics of the sprinkler system for future
building or storage changes.”
903.10 Add new section as follows:
“903.10 Fire Hose Valves - Warehouse And/Or Storage Fire Areas. In all
warehouse storage areas exceeding 10,000 square feet, or where storage exceeds
12 feet high, provide inside 21/2" fire hose valves with 11/2" reducer to a 11/
2" connection. Locate the valves at each door entrance to and exit from the
warehouse and/or storage area. Provide additional 21/2" fire hose valves so
that no portion of the warehouse and/or storage area is more than 120' maximum
travel distance to a fire hose valve. Show the location of all obstructions
and/or racks on the drawing.
Fire hose valves system piping shall be:
1.   A separate riser piping system or a system as approved by the fire code
official;
2.   The 21/2" valves shall be supplied by a minimum of 4" with 21/2" drops to
each valve or as approved by the fire code official; and
3.   Where system pressures exceed 100 psi, provide potter reduced pressure
field adjustable type valves.”
903.11 Add new section as follows:
“903.11 Large Warehouse System Check Valves. Provide a check valve in each
sprinkler riser on large warehouse systems. This will prevent multiple
sprinkler system riser flow switches from activating (backwards) when large
volumes of water are flowing through another riser.”
907.1.4 Add new section as follows:
“Section 907.1.4 Equipment-Fire Alarm Control Panels. New fire alarm control
panels shall be addressable unless otherwise approved by the code official. The
equipment shall be capable of having the audio signal silence without resetting
the fire alarm control panel. All fire alarm control panels shall have an
approved method of placing the system in trouble mode at the location of the
alarm panel.”
907.2 Delete the first paragraph of section 907.2 and replace as follows:
“907.2 Where Required-New Buildings And Structures. An approved manual,
automatic, or manual and automatic fire alarm system shall be provided in all
use groups of new buildings and structures in accordance with the building and
fire codes. Fire alarm systems shall be maintained in full operating condition
at all times. All fire alarm control panels or full function annunciator panels
shall be installed within 10 feet of the main entrance, or in a location
approved by the fire code official. Occupant notification shall be in
accordance with section 907.6, unless other requirements are provided by
another section of this code.
Where automatic sprinkler protection is installed in accordance with building
and fire codes is provided and connected to the building fire alarm system,
automatic heat detection required by this section shall not be required. An
approved automatic fire detection system shall be installed in all use groups,
not provided with an automatic sprinkler system, in accordance with the
provisions of this code and NFPA 72. Devices, combinations of devices,
appliances and equipment shall comply with this chapter.
The automatic fire detectors shall be smoke detectors, except that an approved
alternative type of detector shall be installed in spaces such as boiler rooms
where, during normal operation, products of combustion are present in
sufficient quantity to actuate a smoke detector.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the international building or fire code
to the contrary, all newly constructed buildings, remodeling/renovations,
change of occupancy or additions thereto shall have installed and maintained
therein an approved automatic fire alarm system. Except as otherwise
specifically prescribed, complete approved automatic fire alarm systems shall
also be installed wherever specified by this code.
Exception: One and two family residences, unless specified elsewhere in this
code.”
907.2.11 Add the following to the end of the section:
“and the current state of Illinois smoke detector act (425 ILCS 60/1, et. seq.)
and all the rules and regulations of the Illinois state fire marshal”.
907.2.11.1.1 Add the following to the end of the section:
“4.   Within 15 feet outside of any sleeping area and in each sleeping room.
5.   At the top of every stair.
6.   Within 15 feet of any furnace.
7.   On each level of the building.”
907.2.11.1.2 Add the following to the end of the section:
4.   Within 15 feet outside of any sleeping area and in each sleeping room.
5.   At the top of every stair.
6.   Within 15 feet of any furnace.
7.   On each level of the building.
907.2.24 Add new section as follows:
907.2.24 Single And Multiple Station Smoke Alarms. Listed single- and multiple-
station smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of
this code and the household fire warning equipment provisions of NFPA 72.
When a system is installed within a dwelling unit it shall comply with UL 217.
907.2.25 Add new section as follows:
907.2.25 Where Required In Existing One And Two Family Dwellings. All existing
one and two family residences shall have installed therein smoke detectors in
accordance with Illinois smoke detector act. Every single-family residence
shall have at least one smoke detector installed on every story, including
basements, attics and crawlspaces with mechanical equipment installed in them,
but not including unoccupied attics. Smoke detectors shall be installed in each
room used for sleeping purposes and within 15 feet of the entrances of all
rooms used for sleeping purposes. The signal shall be clearly audible within
each room used for sleeping purposes over background noise levels with all
intervening doors closed. In single-family residences with split-levels, a
smoke detector installed on the upper level shall suffice for the adjacent
lower level if the lower level is less than one full story below the upper
level. However, if there is an intervening door between the adjacent levels, a
smoke detector shall be installed on each level.
907.2.26 Add new section as follows:
907.2.26 Alterations, Repairs, And Additions. When interior alterations,
repairs or additions requiring a permit occur, or when one or more sleeping
rooms are added or created in existing dwellings, the individual dwelling unit
shall be provided with smoke alarms located as required for new dwellings; the
smoke alarms shall be interconnected and hard-wired.
Exceptions:
1.   Smoke alarms in existing areas shall not be required to be interconnected
and hard-wired where the alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space, or basement available which could provide access for hard
wiring and interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
2.   Repairs to the exterior surfaces of dwellings are exempt from the
requirements of this section.
907.2.27 Add new section as follows:
“907.2.27 Mounting Of Detectors. All smoke detectors shall be mounted on the
ceiling or on the wall six to twelve inches from the ceiling, except that all
smoke detectors in interior common stairwells shall be on the uppermost
ceiling.”
907.2.28 Add new section as follows:
907.2.28 Responsibility For Installation. In single family and two family
residences, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of the building or
structure to supply and install all required smoke detectors. The owner shall
be responsible for making reasonable efforts to test and maintain smoke
detectors in interior common stairwells.
907.2.29 Add new section as follows:
907.2.29 Maintenance Of Detectors. It shall be the responsibility of the tenant
to test and provide general maintenance for the smoke detectors within the
tenant’s dwelling unit and to notify the owner or an authorized agent of the
owner, in writing, of any deficiencies, which the tenant cannot correct. The
owner shall be responsible for providing the tenant with written information
regarding smoke detector testing and maintenance.
907.2.30 Add new section as follows:
907.2.30 Battery Replacement. The tenant shall be responsible for replacement
of any required batteries in the smoke detectors in the tenant’s dwelling unit,
except that the owner shall ensure that such batteries are in operating
condition at the time the tenant takes possession of the dwelling unit. The
tenant shall provide the owner or the authorized agent of the owner with access
to the dwelling unit to correct any deficiencies in the smoke detector(s),
which have been reported in writing to the owner or authorized agent of the
owner.
907.2.31 Add new section as follows:
907.2.31 Low-Voltage System. At the option of the owner of the building or
structure, a low-voltage, standard central smoke detection system may be
installed in a single-family residence or two-family residence in lieu of
battery-powered smoke detectors or hard-wired smoke detectors, provided that
such low-voltage standard central smoke detection system meets the requirements
for such a system set forth in the ordinance codified in this chapter or is
otherwise approved by the code official.
907.2.32 Add new section as follows:
907.2.32 Existing Multi-Family (Three Or More Dwelling Units) Buildings. All
multi-family buildings when renovated or constructed hereafter, shall have
installed therein hard-wired smoke detectors as provided in this subsection.
907.2.33 Add new section as follows:
907.2.33 Smoke Detector Locations.
1. Each room used for sleeping purposes.
Exception: Existing multi-family buildings and structures have the option to
install battery powered smoke detectors in lieu of hard-wired in sleeping
areas. Hard-wire smoke detectors with battery back up is preferred.
2. In the immediate vicinity (minimum of 15 feet) of all entrances to rooms
used for sleeping purposes and in each sleeping room.
3. Within 15 feet of any furnace.
4. A smoke detector shall be installed in each interior common stairwell (at
the top of the stairs).
5. A smoke detector shall be installed in each interior common corridor or
hallway at intervals of not more than thirty (30) feet.
6. A smoke detector shall be installed within each laundry room, boiler,
electrical and other service room, and each tenant and building maintenance
storage room. The code official is authorized to require an approved
alternative type of detector be installed where, during normal operation,
products or combustion or other conditions are present in sufficient quantity
to actuate a smoke detector.
907.2.34 Add new section as follows:
907.2.34 Access For Maintenance. The tenant shall provide the owner or
authorized agent of the owner with access to the dwelling unit to check, clean,
test, maintain, repair and replace all smoke detectors therein.
907.2.35 Add new section as follows:
907.2.35 Low Voltage Standard Smoke Detection System Locations. The low-
voltage, standard central smoke detection system shall be installed in all
interior common stairwells, interior common corridors or hallways, laundry
rooms, boiler, electrical and other service rooms, and tenant and building
maintenance and storage rooms. The smoke detection devices connected to the
low-voltage, standard central smoke detection system shall be located as
provided in 907.3.9.1.
907.2.36 Add new section as follows:
907.2.36 Hard Wired Smoke Detector Locations. A hard-wired smoke detector with
battery back-up shall be installed in each room used for sleeping purposes.
When more than one smoke detector is installed, all smoke detectors shall be so
wired so that the actuation of one detector shall activate all the detectors in
the dwelling unit.
907.2.37 Add new section as follows:
907.2.37 Annunciator And Panel Control Box. Each smoke detection device
connected to the low-voltage, standard central smoke detection system shall be
connected to an annunciator and a panel control box.
1. The annunciator shall have a visual indicator of alarm location and be
installed in the entrance or on the exterior of each building or structure at
the entrance, in a waterproof enclosure, as directed by the code official.
2. There shall be American with disability act (ADA) compliant horn/strobes
installed in the interior common corridors, hallways, and stairwells leading to
the dwelling units, which are clearly audible within such dwelling units over
background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
907.2.38 Add new section as follows:
907.2.38 Fire Alarm Supervision. All new low-voltage, standard central smoke
detection system installations shall be connected directly to the village of
Lake Bluff dispatch communication center or a U.L. listed and approved central
station via a two-way radio transmitter at the time the system is placed into
operation.
907.2.39 Add new section as follows:
907.2.39 Responsibility Maintenance. In multi-family buildings or structures it
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the building or structure or
authorized agent of the owner thereof to install, maintain, repair, and
replace, if necessary, the low-voltage, standard central smoke detection system
required hereby.
907.2.40 Add new section as follows:
907.2.40 Maintenance And Testing. The owner or authorized agent of the owner
shall also be responsible for the continuous maintenance of such system through
no less than an annual inspection and testing thereof performed under a written
maintenance agreement with a reliable firm actively engaged in the servicing of
such systems. A copy of each maintenance agreement shall be accompanied by a
written report and a copy of such report shall be promptly delivered to the
village of Lake Bluff. Further, the current maintenance agreement and latest
report shall be made available at all reasonable times for inspection by duly
authorized personnel of the village.
907.2.41 Add new section as follows:
907.2.41 Power Source For Existing Multifamily Buildings. Smoke alarms are not
required to be equipped with battery backup where they are connected to an
emergency electrical system.
907.2.42 Add new section as follows:
907.2.42 Heat Detection Device. Where a heat detection device or combination
heat and smoke detection device will be more effective than a smoke detector as
a result of conditions within the area in which the device is located, the heat
detection device or combination heat and smoke detection device shall be
installed in place of a smoke detector at the direction of the code official.
The combination heat and smoke detection device shall bear the testing label of
a nationally recognized, independent testing laboratory and shall meet the
requirements of NFPA 72.
907.5.2 Add the following language to the end of the section:
“Manual fire alarm boxes shall be installed in each use group described in this
code; they shall be installed in accordance with sections 907.5.2.1 through and
907.5.2.5.”
907.5.2.6 Add new section as follows:
“907.5.2.6 Separate Zones. Manual fire alarm boxes, audio/visual devices and
detectors are to be on separate zones per floor and device unless approved
otherwise by the fire code official.”
907.6.2.3.5 Add new section as follows:
“907.6.2.3.5 Multi-Tenant Use Group M, F And S Buildings. Multi-tenant use
group M, F and S buildings will be “ring by tenant” activated by a fire
sprinkler system flow switch for that space or automatic fire detection and
shall include a weatherproof clear outside strobe over the entrance to each
tenant space as directed by the fire code official. All outside strobes shall
be 75 candela minimum.”
907.7.5 Delete section and replace as follows:
907.7.5 Monitoring. All required fire protective signaling systems located
within the village of Lake Bluff shall transmit alarm, supervisory, and trouble
signals directly to the main dispatch communication center for the village of
Lake Bluff or an approved U.L. listed central monitoring station. This
connection shall be made with a two-way radio transmitter installed at each
location. All required fire protective signaling systems shall report directly
to the village of Lake Bluff main dispatch communication center or an approved
U.L. listed central monitoring station via a two-way radio transmitter. Future
methods of connection shall be determined by the fire chief.
Exceptions:
1.   Single- and multi-station smoke detectors are required by section
907.2.10.
2.   Smoke detectors in buildings of use group I-3 occupancies.
3.   Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
907.10 Add new section as follows:
907.10 Intentional False Alarms. No person shall intentionally turn in a fire
alarm when, in fact, such person knows that no fire exists. No person shall
activate any fire alarm system or any fire suppression system for purposes
other than emergency, maintenance, or prescribed testing.
912.7 Add new section as follows:
“912.7 Fire Department Connection Types. All fire department connections shall
be a 21/2" x 21/2" x 21/2" siamese NST connection, 4 inch storz or as
determined by the code official.”
1006.3 Add the following language to the end of the section:
6.   All rooms containing the building fire sprinkler riser(s), fire pump(s)
and fire alarm control panel(s) shall be provided with approved emergency
lighting.
3302.1 Add the following to the definition of Fireworks:
“Fireworks. The term “fireworks” shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and
shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons, in which explosives are used, the
type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, sky-rockets, roman candles, bombs, or other fireworks
of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive compound, or
any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, or containing
combustible substances producing visual effects, provided, however, that the
term “fireworks” shall not include trick noise makers known as “party poppers”,
“booby traps”, and “snappers”; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths of
grains or less of explosive compound are used, providing they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than
twenty hundredths grains of explosive mixture.
Note: Devices such as sparklers, snake or glow worm pellets, trick matches,
etc. that require an open flame, such as a match or lighter, to ignite are not
permitted.”
3304.1 Delete section and replace as follows:
3304.1 General. The storage of explosive materials is prohibited within the
village.
3304.2 Delete sections 3304.2 through 3304.10.7.
3305.1 Delete section and replace as follows:
3305.1 General. The manufacturing, assembly and testing of explosives,
ammunition, blasting agents and fireworks is prohibited in the village.
Chapter 47
Referenced Standards
Chapter 47 Referenced Standards:
Delete ICC electric code and insert 2014 national electric code-NFPA 70.
Delete international plumbing code and insert the Illinois state plumbing code.
Delete the international sewage disposal code and insert Illinois state
plumbing code.
NFPA The most current edition of all the NFPA standards, except/deleting NFPA 1
and NFPA 5000, are adopted by reference and also in whole.
Appendix B Adopted by reference.
Appendix D Adopted by reference.
Appendix E Adopted by reference.
Appendix F Adopted by reference.
Appendix I Adopted by reference.
Appendix J Adopted by reference.
Chapter 47
Referenced Standards
Chapter 47 Referenced Standards:
Delete ICC electric code and insert 2014 national electric code-NFPA 70.
(Ord. 2017-1, 2-13-2017)
Delete international plumbing code and insert the Illinois state plumbing code.
Delete the international sewage disposal code and insert Illinois state
plumbing code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
NFPA The most current edition of all the NFPA standards, except/deleting NFPA 1
and NFPA 5000, are adopted by reference and also in whole.
Appendix B Adopted by reference.
Appendix D Adopted by reference.
Appendix E Adopted by reference.
Appendix F Adopted by reference.
Appendix I Adopted by reference.
Appendix J Adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023; Ord. 2023-29, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 6
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Adoption Of Illinois Plumbing Law
9-6-2: Illinois Plumbing Law On File
9-6-3: Amendments To The Illinois Plumbing Law
9-6-1: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS PLUMBING LAW 1 :
The provisions of the Illinois plumbing license law, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 320/0.01 et seq., and the regulations adopted thereunder in 68
Illinois administrative code 750.100 et seq., and 77 Illinois administrative
code 890.110 et seq. (collectively "Illinois plumbing law"), shall regulate the
licensing of plumbers, the registration of irrigation contractors, and the
design and installation of plumbing systems, including, but not limited to,
sanitary and storm drainage, sanitary facilities, water supplies and stormwater
and sewage disposal. The village hereby adopts the current edition of the
Illinois plumbing code. (Ord. 2017-2, 2-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 18 of this title.
9-6-2: ILLINOIS PLUMBING LAW ON FILE:
Complete printed copies of the Illinois plumbing code/law, herein adopted, are
available for public use and inspection at the office of the village clerk.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-6-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING LAW:
The following sections of the current Illinois plumbing code/law are hereby
amended, revised, and changed as follows. Subsequent section numbers used in
this chapter shall refer to the like numbered sections of the Illinois plumbing
law: (Ord. 2017-2, 2-13-2017)
890.320(c) Delete section.
890.320(j) Delete section.
890.1200(a) Delete section and replace as follows:
"(a) Water Service Pipe Sizing. The water-service pipe from the street main to
the water-distribution systems for the building shall be of sufficient size to
provide an adequate flow of water to meet the minimum requirements per this
section 890.1200. The new water service pipe and fittings shall be at least one
and one half inches (11/2") in diameter."
890.APP.A Approved Materials For Building Sewer. Delete paragraph 2 and replace
as follows:
"(2) Asbestos cement pipe and bituminized fiber pipe shall not be used."
890.APP.A Approved Materials For Water Service Pipe. Delete paragraphs 1, 4, 8,
9, 10, and 11 and replace each paragraph as follows:
"(1) Aceylonite butadiene stryene (ABS) pipe shall not be used."
"(4) Chlorinated polyvinyl chloride (CPVC) pipe shall not be used."
"(8) Poly butylene (PB) pipe/tubing shall not be used."
"(9) Polyethylene (PE) pipe shall not be used."
"(10) Polyethylene (PE) tubing shall not be used."
"(11) Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe shall not be used."
890.APP.A Approved Materials For Water Distribution Pipe. Delete paragraph 7
and replace as follows:
(7)   Poly butylene (PB) pipe/tubing shall not be used.
2902 Add the following new section 2902 as follows:
"Section 2902 Additional Special Rules
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
2902.1 Additional Special Rules. The following additional special rules and
regulations are hereby adopted as a part of this code:
1.   All water pipe shall be run in type "L" copper for interior above ground
and below grade water pipe shall be run in type "K" soft copper. PVC water pipe
is not allowed.
2.   All sanitary sewer services are to be installed with a length of ductile
iron pipe through the foundation wall and spanning the over dig at the outside
of the house to prevent shearing at the foundation. The service is to have a
clean out of equal size extended to grade outside of the building at the end of
the ductile iron.
3.   All new sanitary lines shall be overhead type sewers to prevent possible
surcharging the basement.
4.   All storm sewer pipe is to be installed with SDR 26 PVC type pipe or
approved equal.
5.   All directional bored storm or sanitary lines shall be inspected by use of
a video camera supplied by contractor after installation to verify integrity
and proper pitch of pipe. Village inspector to be on site at time video is
taken.
6.   Eliminate the use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe with cellular core. See
appendix A 12 of the Illinois plumbing law.
7.   All new sewer pipe connections of dissimilar material are to be made with
no shear type fittings.
8.   No cross connections of any nature or description shall be permitted
between the sanitary system and the storm sewerage system of any house premises
or building in the village, nor shall any sump pump or drainage system of any
nature be cross connected with or between said sanitary and storm systems.
Relocation of storm sewer discharge is to be approved by the village.
9.   All new connections are to be bed in granular material as approved by the
building department. Granular material is to be installed to a level 4 inches
above the pipe.
10.   Water service to any premises shall not be less than one and one half
inch (11/2") inside diameter and shall be installed to a depth of not less than
5 feet or more than seven feet. Water services one and one half inch or two
inch diameter shall be type K copper. Water services of greater than 2 inch in
diameter may be of cement lined ductile cast iron pipe.
11.   Where a domestic water line is serving a property and additional well for
water will not be permitted unless otherwise approved by a special use permit.
12.   When a new water meter or new water service is installed in an existing,
renovated or new building or there is a new occupancy or occupant/owner of a
building then a 1/2" metallic conduit shall be installed from the meter to the
street side of the building so that a remote water meter reader can be wired
and installed. The location of the conduit can be verified with the building
official.
13.   Pursuant to 17 Ill. admin. code 3730.307(c)(4) and subject to the
Illinois plumbing code (77 Ill. admin. code 890) and the lawn irrigation
contractor and lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 Ill. admin. code
892), all new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the
effective date of this ordinance shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated
by the U.S. environmental protection agency WaterSense program), when such
labeled fixtures are available.
(Ord. 2017-2, 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-7-1: Adoption Of National Electrical Code
9-7-2: Amendments To The Electrical Code
9-7-3: Additional Special Rules
9-7-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the village the 2017 National Electrical Code (NFPA
70) as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the “electrical code”), which is
incorporated as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-7-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE ELECTRICAL CODE:
The following sections of the electrical code are hereby amended as set forth
in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this chapter shall refer to
like numbered sections of NFPA 70:
110.5 Delete section 110.5 and replace as follows:
“110.5 Conductors. Conductors normally used to carry current shall be of
copper. The sizes given in this code shall apply to copper conductors.”
230.42(D) Add the following new section 230.42(D):
230.42(D) Ungrounded Conductors. Ungrounded conductors shall not be smaller
than:
1.   200-ampere, 3 wire, for a one family dwelling.
2.   100-ampere, 3 wire, for an existing one family dwelling.
3.   60-amperes for other loads.
Exceptions:
(a)   For loads consisting of not more than two 2-wire branch circuits, no. 6
copper.
(b)   By special permission, for loads limited by demand or by the source of
supply, no. 6 copper.
(c)   For limited loads of a single branch circuit, no. 12 copper, but in no
case smaller than the branch circuit conductors.
230.43 Delete section 230.43 and replace as follows:
“230.43 Wiring Methods For 1000 Volts Or Less. Service entrance conductors
shall be installed in accordance with the applicable requirements of this code
covering the type of wiring method used and limited to the following methods:
1.   Rigid metal conduit
2.   Intermediate metal conduit
3.   Electrical metallic tubing
4.   Wireways
5.   Busways
6.   Auxiliary gutters
7.   Cablebus
8.   Rigid polyvinyl chloride conduit (PVC)
9.   High density polyethylene conduit (HDPE)”
250.64(A) Delete section 250.64(A) and replace as follows:
“(A)   Aluminum Or Copper-Clad Aluminum Conductors. Bare aluminum or copper-
clad aluminum grounding conductors shall not be used.”
320.12 Add the following 320.12 (6):
“(6)   In lengths of more than 6'.”
2701.2 Add the following new section 2701.2 as follows:
“2701.2 Additional Special Rules. The following special rules and regulations
are hereby adopted as part of this international building code and
international residential code:
1.   All electrical wiring shall be in intermediate metallic conduit, rigid
conduit, electrical metallic tubing as specified in NFPA 70, except that other
types of conduit or wiring protection may be permitted by the building
official.
2.   Conduit on or below grade shall be galvanized rigid. All exterior conduit
shall be rigid (steel or aluminum) or intermediate metallic.
3.   When a question arises as to method or material used, the ruling of the
building official shall govern.
4.   All unused or abandoned electrical equipment shall be removed.”
2701.2 Add the following new section 2701.2:
“2701.2 Electrical Equipment. All buildings (other than one and two family
dwellings) shall provide an electric shunt switch, of the type approved by the
code official, that will disconnect all power to the building, except emergency
generator power, or electric company main vaults (constructed per code) and be
placed at a location approved by the fire code official.
Exceptions:
1.   Existing buildings, unless being renovated or change of use or have the
installation of a new electrical panel or service, will be exempt from this
requirement.
2.   One and two family dwellings are exempt from the electric shunt switch but
shall have an exterior disconnect for the main electric service.”
2701.3 Add the following new section 2701.3:
“2701.3 Registration. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to engage in the business of an electrical contractor or electrical contractor
limited, without being registered as an electrical contractor or electrical
contractor limited.”
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-7-3: ADDITIONAL SPECIAL RULES:
The following wiring types are not permitted, except where permission is
granted by the Code Official in consideration of unique circumstances: Armored
Cable in lengths exceeding 6', Armored Cable Type AC Aluminum or Copper-Clad
Aluminum Conductors, Flat Cable Assembly Type FC, Flat Conductor Cable,
Integrated Gas Spacer Cable Type IGS, Medium Voltage Cable Type MV, Metal Clad
Cable Type MC, Mineral-Insulated Metal Sheathed Cable, Nonmetallic Sheathed
Cable, Power and Control Tray Cable Type TC. (Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 8
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Adoption Of International Fuel Gas Code
9-8-2: Amendments To The Fuel Gas Code
9-8-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the village the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code as
hereinafter amended (hereinafter the “fuel gas code”), which is incorporated as
if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023)
9-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE FUEL GAS CODE:
The following sections of the fuel gas code are hereby amended as set forth in
this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this chapter shall refer to
like numbered sections of the fuel gas code:
101.1 Delete section 101.1 and replace as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Lake Bluff fuel gas code,
hereinafter referred to as this "code."
103.1 Delete section 103.1 and replace as follows:
"103.1 General. The building commissioner, as provided for in title 9 of the
village of Lake Bluff village code, or his or her designee, shall be the code
official in charge of administering this international fuel gas code and shall
be known as the code official."
106.5 Delete section 106.5 and replace as follows:
"106.5 Permit Issuance. The application, construction documents and other data
filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the code official. If
the code official finds that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of
this code and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto, and that the fees
specified in section
1-12-3 of the municipal code have been paid, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant."
106.6 Delete section 106.6 and replace as follows:
"106.6 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in the
village of Lake Bluff comprehensive fee schedule contained in title 1 chapter
12 of the Lake Bluff code, have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit
be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase of the
mechanical system, has been paid."
106.6.2 Delete section 106.6.2 and replace as follows:
106.6.2 Fee Schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as indicated in
section
1-12-3 of the municipal code.
106.6.3 Delete section 106.6.3.
108.4 Delete section 108.4 and replace as follows:
108.4 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in section
9-1-22 of the municipal code.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
108.5 Delete section 108.5 and replace as follows:
"108.5 Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the code official that mechanical
work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or
unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's
agent, or to the person doing the work, or shall be posted on the property
where the work is being done. The notice shall state the conditions under which
work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the code official
shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any
person who shall continue to work on the system after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for penalties as set
forth in section
9-1-22 of the municipal code."
(Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
109 Delete section 109 and replace as follows:
"Section 109.1 Application For Appeal. A person shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the code official to the village of Lake Bluff architectural
board of review. The applicant shall make written notice for the appeal and
such appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of the code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of
construction is proposed."
306.3 Delete section 306.3 and replace as follows:
"306.3 Appliances In Attics. Attics containing appliances shall be provided
with a conditioned space with a floor drain, approved fire suppression/fire
sprinklers installed according to NFPA 13, smoke detection interconnected with
the smoke detectors in the remainder of the structure, and a pull down stair or
permanent stair that provides for access to and replacement of the appliance
(s). There shall be a passageway of solid continuous flooring to this space not
less than 36 inches wide. A level service space of not less than 30 inches deep
and 30 inches wide shall be present at the front and/or service side(s) of the
appliance(s)."
306.3.1 "306.3.1 Electrical Requirements. A luminaire controlled by a switch
located at the required stairway opening and a receptacle outlet shall be
provided at or near the appliance location in accordance with NFPA 70."
306.4.2 Add new section 306.4.2 as follows:
"Section 306.4.2 Fire Suppression Requirements. All appliances located under
floors shall be provided with and protected by an approved fire suppression/
fire sprinkler system installed according to NFPA 13."
403.1.1 Add new section 403.1.1 as follows:
"403.1.1 Piping Materials. All interior gas piping shall be installed in black
iron pipe or approved metallic pipe"
Appendix A Adopted by reference.
Appendix B Adopted by reference.
Appendix C Adopted by reference.
Appendix D Adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 9
ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY LAW; ILLINOIS ENVIRONMENTAL BARRIERS ACT
SECTION:
9-9-1: Enforcement Of Illinois Accessibility Law
9-9-2: Purpose
9-9-1: ENFORCEMENT OF ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY LAW:
The village shall enforce the provisions of the Illinois environmental barriers
act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 et seq., and the regulations adopted
hereunder in 71 Illinois administrative code 400.110 et seq. (collectively
"Illinois accessibility law"), shall regulate the control of buildings and
structures and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the Illinois accessibility law are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part thereof, as if fully set forth in this title with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter prescribed. (Ord.
2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-9-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Illinois accessibility code (IAC or code) is to implement
the environmental barriers act (EBA) 1  and to replace the former version of
the code (71 Ill. adm. code 400) effective May 1, 1988. This code is intended
to ensure that the built environment, including all spaces and elements of all
applicable buildings and facilities in the state of Illinois, is so designed,
constructed, and/or altered to assure the safety and welfare of all members of
society and to be readily accessible to, and usable by, environmentally limited
persons.
This code is also intended to resolve areas of difference between the federal
accessibility standards, Americans with disabilities act accessibility
guidelines (ADAAG), which are applicable to buildings and facilities covered by
the Americans with disabilities act (ADA), and the Illinois accessibility
standards, IAC, which are applicable to buildings and facilities in the state
of Illinois covered by the EBA. The drafters of this code compared and adopted
the stricter of state or federal accessible design standards.
This code, together with the environmental barriers act (EBA) and the standards
incorporated by reference identified in section 400.120, has the force of a
building code and as such is law in the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 25.
CHAPTER 10
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-10-1: Adoption Of Codes
9-10-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the same version of the International
Energy Conservation Code as adopted and updated by the State of Illinois in
Section 600.110 of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code, Ill. Admin. Code tit.
71, § 600.110 (hereinafter the “Energy Code”), which Energy Code is
incorporated as if fully set forth herein. The provisions of the Illinois
Energy Conservation Act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1115/1 et seq., and the
Energy Code, shall apply to all buildings as specified in the Act and Energy
Code, respectively, and all buildings in the Village of Lake Bluff including
residential structures. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-
29, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 11
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-11-1: Adoption Of Code
9-11-2: Amendments, Revisions, And Changes
9-11-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the village the 2018 International Mechanical Code,
as hereinafter amended (hereinafter the “mechanical code”), which is
incorporated as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-11-2: AMENDMENTS, REVISIONS, AND CHANGES:
The following sections of the 2018 International Mechanical Code are hereby
amended, revised, and changed as follows:
101.1 Delete section 101.1 and replace as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Lake Bluff mechanical
code, and hereinafter referred to as this "code."
103.1 Delete section 103.1 and replace as follows:
"103.1 General. The building commissioner, as provided for in section
1-6I-1 of the municipal code, or his or her designee, shall be the code
official in charge of administering this international mechanical code and
shall be known as the mechanical code official."
106.4 Delete section 106.4 and replace as follows:
"106.4 Permit Issuance. The application, construction documents and other data
filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the code official. If
the code official finds that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of
this code and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto, and that the fees
specified in section
1-12-3 of the municipal code, have been paid, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant."
106.5 Delete section 106.5 and replace as follows:
“106.5 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in section
1-12-3 of the municipal code have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit
be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase of the
mechanical system, has been paid.”
106.5.2 Delete section 106.5.2 and replace as follows:
106.5.2 Fee Schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as indicated in
section
1-12-3 of the municipal code.
106.5.3 Delete subsection 106.5.3.
108.4 Delete section 108.4 and replace as follows:
“108.4 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by those penalties set forth in section 9-1-22 of the
municipal code.”
108.5 Delete section 108.5 and replace as follows:
108.5 Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the code official that mechanical work
is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or
unsafe manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's
agent, or to the person doing the work, or posted on the property where the
work is being done. The notice shall state the conditions under which work is
authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be
required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who
shall continue to work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for penalties as set forth in
section
9-1-22 of the municipal code.
(Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
109 Delete section 109 and replace as follows:
“Section 109 Application For Appeal
Section 109.1 Application For Appeal. A person shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the code official to the village of Lake Bluff architectural board
of review. The applicant shall make written notice for the appeal and such
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been
306.4.2 Add section 306.4.2 and replace as follows:
Section 306.4.2 Fire Suppression Requirements. All appliances located under
floors shall be provided with and protected by an approved fire suppression/
fire sprinkler system installed according to NFPA 13.
603.1 Delete section 603.1 and replace as follows:
603.1 General. An air distribution system shall be designed and installed to
supply the required distribution of air. The installation of an air
distribution system shall not affect the fire protection requirements specified
in the international building code or village of Lake Bluff adopted amendments.
Ducts shall be constructed, braced, reinforced, and installed to provide
structural strength and durability. All ducts shall be constructed of metallic
materials.
Appendix A Adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 12
GREEN BUILDING GUIDELINES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Recommended Green Building Standards
9-12-1: RECOMMENDED GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS:
The village highly encourages the use of "green" or sustainable building
practices. As such, the village has identified the 2015 international green
construction code as a useful minimum standard for permit applicants who wish
to follow green building practices. Those persons who desire to use sustainable
building practices are encouraged to use the 2018 International Green
Construction Standard or to consult with the code official to identify other
appropriate sustainable building standards for either residential or
nonresidential building projects. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd.
Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 13
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
SECTION:
9-13-1: Findings And Purpose
9-13-2: General Prohibition
9-13-3: Review Of Building Permit Applications
9-13-4: Prebuilding Permit Application Inquiry
9-13-5: Architectural Review Hearing
9-13-6: Right To Appeal Concerning Construction Project
9-13-7: Hearing On Appeal Regarding Construction Project
9-13-8: Administrative Review
9-13-9: Standards Of Review
9-13-10: Application To Pending And Prior Building Permits
9-13-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
A.   The village board of trustees hereby finds that excessive similarity, or
dissimilarity, in design and appearance of buildings and other structures, in
relation to the prevailing design and appearance of property in the vicinity
thereof:
1.   Adversely affects the desirability of immediate and neighboring areas and
impairs the benefits of occupancy of existing property in such areas;
2.   Impairs the stability and taxable value of land and buildings in such
areas;
3.   Prevents the most appropriate use of real estate and the most appropriate
development of such areas;
4.   Produces degeneration of property in such areas with attendant
deterioration of conditions affecting the public health, safety, comfort,
morals and well being of the citizens thereof;
5.   Deprives the village of tax revenue which it otherwise could receive; and/
or
6.   Destroys a proper balance in relationship between the taxable value of
real property in such areas and the cost of the municipal services provided
therefor.
B.   In order to protect the village of Lake Bluff's natural and architectural
environment, to enhance property values, and to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of the village and its residents, the board of trustees has established
these architectural review procedures and regulations. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-2: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
No building permit shall be issued for any proposed construction, alteration,
enlargement, or remodeling of the exterior of any new or existing building
(collectively referred to as "construction") within any residential zoning
district in the village if such construction would produce any of the harmful
effects listed in this chapter. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-3: REVIEW OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
A.   All applications for building permits for construction within a
residential district shall be reviewed by the building commissioner for
purposes of determining whether such construction will produce any of the
harmful effects listed in this chapter.
B.   Within thirty (30) days after the date on which the applicant first
submitted the full and complete building permit application to the village, the
building commissioner shall either:
1.   Issue the building permit, if the building commissioner determines that
none of the harmful effects listed in this chapter will be produced by the
proposed construction; provided, however, that no building permit shall be
issued unless all other applicable village code provisions are satisfied; or
2.   Give written direction to the village administrator to refer the building
permit application to the architectural board of review for a formal review
pursuant to this chapter, if the building commissioner determines that the
proposed construction may produce any of the harmful effects listed in this
chapter; or
3.   Seek input from the board of trustees, in which case if any three (3), but
not less than three (3), members of the board of trustees determines that the
proposed construction may produce any of the harmful effects listed in this
chapter, such three (3) members shall give written direction to the village
administrator to refer the building permit application to the architectural
board of review for a formal review pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-
25-2013)
9-13-4: PREBUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION INQUIRY:
Prior to the submittal of detailed design drawings as part of a formal building
permit application, an applicant may, at its option, submit to the building
commissioner a site plan, a floor plan, and all exterior elevations of the
proposed construction for the purpose of determining compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. In the event that the building commissioner
determines that the proposed construction will not produce one or more of the
harmful effects listed in this chapter, the issuance of the building permit
shall not be withheld by the building commissioner on the basis of any
provision in this chapter; provided, however, that any three (3), but not less
than three (3), members of the board of trustees may overrule the determination
of the building commissioner and require that the building permit application,
when formally submitted, be referred to the architectural board of review for a
formal review pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-5: ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW HEARING:
If an architectural review hearing is required pursuant to any section of this
chapter, the following shall occur:
A.   The applicant shall submit to the village administrator at the village
hall during regular business hours the following hearing application materials:
1.   A nonrefundable application fee as provided in the village comprehensive
fee schedule contained in section
1-12-3 of this code plus an amount determined by the village administrator to
reimburse the village for all anticipated out of pocket expenses incurred in
connection with the delivery of notice pursuant to this chapter;
2.   Ten (10) copies of a site plan showing all relevant zoning information and
all improvements on the subject property (existing and proposed), including
driveways, walkways, and fencing;
3.   Ten (10) copies of elevation drawings of the proposed construction;
4.   Ten (10) copies of a description of the type, color, and texture of the
exterior building materials; and
5.   Ten (10) copies of a vicinity map showing the approximate locations and
dimensions of all buildings, structures, and significant natural or
topographical features of the subject property and all adjoining properties.
B.   The village administrator shall notify the chairperson of the
architectural board of review, who shall set a date for the hearing. Such
hearing date shall be held as soon as possible, but in no event later than
forty five (45) days after the filing of the hearing application materials,
unless the applicant waives or extends the forty five (45) day period in
writing.
C.   After a hearing date has been established, the village administrator shall
notify, in writing, the applicant either in person or by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, not more than thirty (30), nor less
than fifteen (15), days before the hearing. The notice shall state the time,
place, and purpose of the hearing and shall state that the applicant will have
an opportunity to be heard and to present evidence to the architectural board
of review.
D.   After a hearing date has been established, the village administrator shall
notify, in writing, the owners, as evidenced by authentic tax records from Lake
County, of all property within three hundred feet (300') (including the number
of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, and other public ways)
in each direction of the subject property not more than thirty (30), nor less
than fifteen (15), days before the hearing. The notice shall be by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, and state the time, place, and
purpose of the hearing and that the property owner will have an opportunity to
be heard and to present evidence to the architectural board of review.
E.   The chairperson shall open each hearing and determine whether a quorum of
the architectural board of review is present. If less than a quorum is present
at a hearing, the hearing shall be continued, provided that the continued
hearing date is within the period established in this chapter for commencing
such hearing.
F.   The chairperson shall preside over any architectural review hearing and
shall permit the applicant and any interested party (including, without
limitation, any resident of, or owner of property in, the village of Lake
Bluff) to address the architectural board of review and present evidence. All
proceedings of the architectural board of review shall be recorded. Nothing in
this subsection shall prevent the chairperson from limiting the amount of time
that a person may address the architectural board of review. After all the
evidence has been presented and all interested parties have had an opportunity
to be heard, the architectural board of review shall consider all the evidence
presented at the hearing, including the application materials, and determine
whether the proposed construction will cause any of the harmful effects listed
in this chapter.
G.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the architectural board of review shall
vote in public whether to approve or disapprove the proposed construction. Four
(4) votes shall be required to disapprove any proposed construction; any other
action can be taken by a concurrence of the majority of architectural board of
review members in attendance at the hearing.
H.   The building commissioner shall notify, in writing, the applicant either
in person or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, of the
architectural board of review's decision. Such notice shall also state that the
applicant has the right to appeal the decision to the board of trustees.
I.   If the proposed construction is approved, a building permit shall not be
withheld on the basis of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-
2013)
9-13-6: RIGHT TO APPEAL CONCERNING CONSTRUCTION PROJECT:
A.   In the event the architectural board of review disapproves a proposed
construction project, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision
directly to the board of trustees.
B.   An appeal from a decision of the architectural board of review must be
filed in writing with the village administrator within ten (10) days after the
applicant is served with written notice of the architectural board of review's
decision.
C.   Upon the filing of an appeal, the village administrator shall notify the
village president, who shall set a date for hearing the appeal. Such hearing
date shall be no later than thirty (30) days after the filing of the appeal.
D.   After a hearing date has been established, the village administrator shall
notify, in writing, the applicant either in person or by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, at least seven (7) days before the
hearing. The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing.
E.   Upon the filing of an appeal, the village administrator shall prepare for
submission to the board of trustees a written summary of the proceedings from
the architectural review hearing. The village administrator shall also notify
the building commissioner and chairperson of the architectural board of review
of the appeal, who shall forward all records and materials regarding the
application to the board of trustees. The foregoing shall constitute the record
on appeal and shall be delivered to the board of trustees before the hearing
date on the appeal. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-7: HEARING ON APPEAL REGARDING CONSTRUCTION PROJECT:
A.   At the hearing on appeal, the board of trustees shall permit the applicant
to present any additional evidence relating to the proposed construction. The
board of trustees may also consider testimony from the building commissioner,
members of the architectural board of review, or surrounding property owners.
B.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the board of trustees shall consider the
record on appeal, the testimony presented on appeal, and any other evidence and
determine whether the architectural board of review's decision is consistent
with the architectural review standards set forth in this chapter. The board
shall then vote on whether to affirm or reverse the decision of the
architectural board of review.
C.   To reverse the decision of the architectural board of review in whole or
in part, the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the board of
trustees shall be required. Any other action on appeal may be taken by the
concurrence of a majority of trustees present.
D.   The village administrator shall notify, in writing, the applicant either
in person or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, of the
board's decision on appeal. Such notice shall state that the board's decision
is final. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-8: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
Any final decision by the board of trustees pursuant to this chapter may be
further appealed in accordance with the administrative review procedures of the
Illinois code of civil procedure, as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord.
2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-9: STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
In considering whether any proposed construction will produce any of the
harmful effects set forth in this chapter, the building commissioner, the
architectural board of review, and the board of trustees, as the case may be,
shall consider whether there exists one or more of the following features:
Excessive similarity or dissimilarity of design and appearance in relation to
any other existing building or structure, or a building or structure for which
a permit has been issued, within a distance of three hundred feet (300') of the
subject property, or in design and appearance generally prevailing in the area,
of the subject property, in respect to one or more of the following features:
A.   Facade;
B.   Size and arrangement of either doors, windows, porticoes or other openings
or breaks in the facade facing the street, including a reverse arrangement
thereof;
C.   Cubical contents;
D.   Gross floor area;
E.   Other significant design features, such as, without limitation, roof line,
height of building, construction, material, or quality of architectural design;
or
F.   Location, orientation or elevation of building, parking, storage or refuse
areas upon the subject property. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
9-13-10: APPLICATION TO PENDING AND PRIOR BUILDING PERMITS:
The provisions of this chapter, as hereby amended, shall not be deemed to
require any change in the plans or construction of any new or existing building
in the event that:
A.   A full and complete building permit for construction of a building or
structure in any residential zoning district (as opposed to a permit for the
demolition of a building or structure or the construction of a foundation) was
lawfully issued prior to the effective date hereof; and
B.   Such permit had not by its own terms expired prior to such effective date;
and
C.   Construction pursuant to such permit is commenced prior to the expiration
of such permit and within one hundred eighty (180) days of such effective date
and is diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013)
CHAPTER 14
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose And Goals
9-14-5: Definitions
9-14-10: General Provisions
9-14-15: Criteria For Designation
9-14-20: Demolition Review For Buildings More Than 50 Years Old
9-14-25: Designation Of Landmarks
9-14-30: Criteria For Changes To Protected Features
9-14-35: Advisory Review Of Changes To Protected Features
9-14-40: Voluntary Certification Of Protected Features
9-14-45: Certificate Review For Certified Features
Table I List Of Landmark Features
9-14-1: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
A.   Title. This Chapter 14 will be known as the LAKE BLUFF HISTORIC
PRESERVATION REGULATIONS.
B.   Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to promote historic and
architectural preservation in the Village. The Village seeks to protect,
enhance, and perpetuate those historical structures, buildings, sites, and
landscapes valued by the Village and its residents that are significant to the
Village history, culture, and architecture.
C.   Goals. This chapter is created in order to achieve the following goals:
1.   To foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past as
represented in the Village landmarks;
2.   To preserve, promote, maintain, and enhance the Village historic resources
and character as a community comprised principally of well-maintained single-
family residential neighborhoods and small, thriving business areas oriented to
serve the day-to-day needs of local residents;
3.   To protect and enhance the Village attractiveness to residents,
businesses, visitors, and prospective home buyers and businesses;
4.   To maintain and improve property values in the Village;
5.   To protect, preserve, and enhance the Village aesthetic appearance and
character;
6.   To encourage the historic designation of structures, buildings, and
landscapes at the local, state, and national levels; and,
7.   To educate the general public on the significance of historic
preservation. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-5: DEFINITIONS:
                Any of the following:
                i.   Any act or process that requires a building permit and changes the exterior
                appearance of one or more Protected Features.
                ii.   Any act or process that requires a building permit and changes, as viewed from
                any adjacent public or private street, the exterior appearance of a Property where
                one or more Protected Features are located.
ALTERATION:     iii.   Any act or process that requires a building permit and that modifies a
                Protected Landscape; except that this Chapter does not regulate changes to existing
                plantings, terrain grades, natural courses or bodies of water, or other objects that
                are not Buildings or Structures.
                iv.   A Demolition of a Feature is not an Alteration of that Feature. However, a
                Demolition may constitute an Alteration to a Feature that is not to be demolished.
                For example, where only part of a Building is Protected, the Demolition of the part
                not Protected may constitute an Alteration of the remainder.
                Having satisfied the applicable Review requirement under this Chapter to proceed
AUTHORIZATION:  with Work, whether by approval by an affirmative vote of the Commission or the
                Village Board, or as a result of the expiration of any applicable delay period.
                Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent or temporary
                location on or in the ground, and which is intended for human occupancy or
BUILDING:       habitation. Examples of some Buildings that may be Protected under this Chapter
                include, without limitation: houses, barns, stables, sheds, garages, courthouses,
                offices, train depots, churches, schools, stores, and theaters.
BUILDING        The Building Commissioner appointed from time to time by the Village President and
COMMISSIONER:   Board of Trustees, including any duly appointed Deputy Building Commissioners.
                A voluntary, binding agreement by the Owner of a Property that contains Protected
                Features. The agreement must run with the land and bind future Owners and must
CERTIFICATION.  provide that any Alteration or Demolition of Protected Features on the Property is
                subject to the Certificate Review process provided in Section
                9-14-45.
                A Feature or subtype of Feature that is Protected and, further, that is located on a
                Property whose Owner has voluntarily agreed will be subject to the Certificate
CERTIFIED:      Review process provided in Section
                9-14-45 of this Code in lieu of the Advisory Review process provided by Section
                9-14-35 of this Code.
COMMISSION:     The Lake Bluff Historic Preservation Commission established in Title 2, Chapter 9 of
                this Municipal Code.
COMMISSIONERS:  Members of the Commission.
                Any act or process that alters the exterior appearance of a Feature and either:
                i.   Destroys, removes, or physically relocates to a different Property at least 50
                percent of a Building or Structure, as measured by the proportion of linear feet of
                exterior wall being demolished to the total linear feet of existing exterior wall.
                For the purposes of this subsection (i), the following actions are considered to be
                destruction:
                   a.   Removal of the finish materials from both sides of a segment of a wall;
                   b.   Enclosing a segment of an existing exterior wall such that it becomes an
                interior wall; and,
                   c.   Cutting new openings or enlarging existing openings will result in the
DEMOLITION:     entire width of the new opening being treated as destroyed.
                ii.   Destroys, removes, or physically relocates to a different Property a Structure
                that does not have exterior walls.
                iii.   Rules of Interpretation:
                   a.   Where only part of a Building or Structure is Protected, the criteria
                provided in this definition are calculated for the Building or Structure as a whole
                as well as to the individual part(s) that are Protected.
                   b.   Activities taking place on a single Property within any consecutive 36 month
                period are cumulative for the purposes of determining whether an act or process
                satisfies this definition, even where some or all of the preceding Work is
                Authorized under this Chapter.
                A letter of intent notifying the Building Commissioner that the Owner desires to
                engage in a Demolition subject to review pursuant to Sections
                9-14-20 (Demolition Review),
DEMOLITION      9-14-35 (Advisory Review), or
LETTER OF       9-14-45 (Certificate Review) of this Chapter. The letter must include, at a minimum:
INTENT:         i.   An existing site plan of the Property illustrating the proposed extent of
                Demolition.
                ii.   A brief description of any Features on the Property proposed to be demolished.
                iii.   Photographs of the Property, which must include a photograph of the Property
                from all streets adjacent to the Property.
FEATURE:        Part of or an entire Building, Structure, or Landscape.
                A Feature that has been designated as a historic landmark by an ordinance duly
LANDMARK:       adopted by the Village Board of Trustees pursuant to the procedures and standards
                set forth in this Chapter in order to recognize and protect its special historic,
                visual, aesthetic, cultural, archaeological, and/or architectural significance.
                Manmade improvements to a portion of land or territory that are significant as a
                form of architecture and not merely as a complementary setting for one or more
                structures or buildings. Landscapes may consist of manmade improvements such as
                dividers (such as walls and fences), drainage and engineering structures (such as
                retaining walls), site furnishings (such as benches, planters, and urns), fountains
LANDSCAPE:      and bodies of water, lighting, signage, sculptures, and other works of art.
                Landscapes do not include existing trees and plantings (whether naturally occurring
                or consciously planted), terrain grades, natural courses or bodies of water, or
                objects. Examples of Landscapes that may be Protected under this Chapter include
                manmade features in such places as, without limitation: parks, gardens, arboreta,
                plazas, greens, and recreational grounds.
MUTUALLY AGREED Conditions agreed to by the Commission and the Owner in order to cause the early
CONDITIONS:     termination of a Review, as set forth in Section
                9-14-10(I)(2).
                A.   The person, corporation, or other legal entity that has a fee interest in a
                Property, as evidenced by the name that appears on the title records in the office
                of the Lake County Recorder or as otherwise determined by the Building Commissioner.
                B.   Where this Chapter requires mailings to an Owner, the requirement is satisfied
                by mailing to the address on file with the Lake County Chief Assessor’s office for
                the mailing of property tax statements.
                C.   When the Property is in a land trust or is subject to a long term land lease,
                or when one or more persons, corporations, or other legal entities have an ownership
                interest in the Property (including beneficial interests and long term lessee
                interests), the rights afforded to, and obligations imposed on, Owners in this
OWNER:          Chapter apply and are exercised as if there were only one Owner. Neither the Village
                nor the Commission have any obligation to investigate or determine the legal
                relationship among the multiple Owners. It is sufficient for any one Owner to act
                for and bind, the Property (which includes, without limitation, the delivery and
                receipt of notice and the provision of written consent), unless the Commission
                receives, within the applicable time periods or any extended time periods as the
                Commission deems appropriate, clear and convincing evidence, as determined by the
                Commission, that such Owner does not have the exclusive authority to act for, and
                bind, the Property. Absent such a timely protest or objection, the Commission may
                rely on representations made by any one Owner with respect to the exercise of the
                rights and obligations set forth in this Chapter.
PROPERTY:       Land and improvements identified as a separate zoning lot for purposes of the
                Village’s zoning and subdivision regulations.
                A Feature that, except if it is Certified, is subject to Advisory Review pursuant to
                Section
PROTECTED:      9-14-35 because it is:
                A.   The subject of a Landmark designation; or,
                B.   The subject of a pending application that, if approved or adopted, would cause
                it to satisfy (i) or (ii).
                The Owner of a Property or Feature that is the subject of an application under this
                Chapter, or an attorney representing the Owner. When the Owner is a land trust, a
                beneficiary of the trust or an attorney representing the land trust may serve as the
QUALIFIED       Owner’s Qualified Representative. When the Owner is a legal entity other than a land
REPRESENTATIVE: trust, a principal or officer of the Owner or the Owner’s attorney may serve as the
                Owner’s Qualified Representative. An architect, builder, or contractor retained by
                the Owner to design or complete Work proposed by an application may also serve as
                the Owner’s Qualified Representative.
                The following professional survey(s) of historical and architectural resources
                conducted at the direction of the Village, copies of which are maintained in the
                offices of the Village Clerk:
                i.   “Summary and Architectural Survey,” Historic Certification Consultants, 1998;
RESOURCE SURVEY ii.   “A Summary and Inventory of the Southeast Survey Area,” Historic Certification
(S):            Consultants, 2003;
                iii.   “Summary and Historic Resource Survey: Estate Areas of Lake Bluff,” Benjamin
                Historic Certifications, 2008; and.
                iv.   “A Summary and Inventory of Historic Resources 2018-2019,” Benjamin Historic
                Certifications, 2019.
                Any of the following processes provided by this Chapter:
                A.   Demolition Review for Buildings over 50 years old pursuant to Section
                9-14-15;
REVIEW:         B.   Advisory Review for Protected Features pursuant to Section
                9-14-40; and,
                C.   Certificate Review for Certified Features pursuant to Section
                9-14-45.
                Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent or temporary
                location on or in the ground, but which is not intended for human occupancy or
STRUCTURE:      habitation. Examples of some Structures that may be Protected under this Chapter
                include, without limitation: bridges, fire towers, silos, roadways, railroads, and
                gazebos.
WORK:           The specific act or acts proposed to be undertaken by an application for a Review.
                (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
 
9-14-10: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
A.   Purpose. This Section provides the general rules of process, procedure,
and interpretation common throughout this Chapter.
B.   Regulated Activities. It is a violation of this Code for any person to
conduct an Alteration or Demolition, as those terms are defined in Section
9-14-5, without first satisfying the applicable Review requirements. The
Building Commissioner may not issue a permit for any activity defined as an
Alteration or Demolition until any applicable Review requirement has been
satisfied, including without limitation construction, demolition, or sign
permits.
C.   Village Orders Exempt from Review. The Building Commission may expressly
exempt from Review under this Chapter any Work necessary to comply with a
lawful order of the Village, including, without limitation, Work necessary to
correct what the Building Commissioner determines to be an immediate health or
safety problem. The Building Commissioner may subject the Work to appropriate
conditions to advance the purpose and goals of this Chapter.
D.   Partial Natural Destruction or Demolition. In the case of partial natural
destruction or demolition of a Protected Feature, the Owner must obtain
Authorization for the Work prior to reconstruction. Although exact duplication
of the previous Feature may not be required, the reconstructed exterior
appearance of the Feature should be in harmony with the exterior appearance of
the Protected Feature prior to the damage. The reconstructed Feature thereafter
shall remain a Protected Feature.
E.   Preliminary Workshops.
1.   Who May Apply. Prior to any formal application under this Chapter, any
applicant may, and is encouraged, to request a preliminary workshop with the
Commission.
2.   Purpose. The purpose of a preliminary workshop is to broadly present the
Commission with an applicant’s proposal and to provide the applicant with any
preliminary views or concerns that Commissioners may have when positions are
still flexible; adjustment is still possible; and before the applicant is
required to expend the time and resources necessary to prepare the complete
documentation required for a formal submittal.
3.   Notice. No notice of a preliminary workshop is required except that the
workshop must be shown on the Commission’s regular agenda in accordance with
the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/).
4.   Procedure. At the meeting at which the preliminary application is
considered, any Commissioner may make any comments, suggestions, or
recommendations regarding the preliminary application; provided, however, that
no recommendation may be made, and no final or binding action may be taken,
with respect to any preliminary application by the Commission. Any views
expressed in the course of the Commission’s workshop concerning any preliminary
application are only preliminary and advisory and only the individual views of
the Commissioner expressing them. Nothing said or done in the course of the
workshop creates or prejudices any rights of the applicant or obligates the
Commission or any Commissioner to approve or deny any formal application
following full consideration thereof as required by this Chapter.
F.   Applications.
1.   Form. Applications under this Chapter must be made in a form and number
determined by the Building Commissioner.
2.   Minimum Requirements. Every application must include, at a minimum, the
following information:
a.   The applicant’s name and address.
b.   The Owner’s name, if different from the applicant’s.
c.   If the application concerns a specific property: an address, assigned
property index number, and, if available, a legal description to identify the
subject property; and
d.   Such other relevant information as requested by the Building Commissioner
or the Commission.
e.   For Review applications that propose to undertake Work:
(1)   Identification of any architect or developer involved in the proposed
Work.
(2)   If the applicant is not an Owner, the Owner’s authorization to apply.
3.   Summary Denial of Incomplete Applications. The Building Commissioner may
summarily, and without hearing, deny any incomplete application after providing
the applicant a reasonable opportunity to correct any deficiencies.
4.   Withdrawal of Application. An applicant has the right to withdraw without
prejudice an application at any time prior to the final decision on the
application, including if it has been tabled by the Commission or the Village
Board of Trustees. Requests for withdrawal must be made in writing by the
applicant.
G.   Public Notice of Applications.
1.   Mailed Notice to Surrounding Owners. Where required by this Chapter, the
Village will send notice to the Owners of all properties located within 300
feet from the property line of the subject property including any streets,
alleys, and rights-of-way, as well as to the Owners of any subject property
that are not applicants. Notice must be by first class mail postmarked no less
than 15 days nor more than 30 days in advance of the scheduled meeting date.
The notice must include, at a minimum:
a.   The date, time, place and purpose of the hearing or meeting;
b.   The name of the applicant;
c.   If the application concerns a specific property: an address, assigned
property index number, or legal description to identify the subject property;
and
d.   The action or relief sought by the applicant.
2.   Newspaper Notice. Where required by this Chapter, the Village will publish
notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the Village no less than 15
days nor more than 30 days in advance of the scheduled meeting date. The
minimum contents of the notice are the same as required for mailed notice to
surrounding Owners.
3.   Posting of Signage. Where required by this Chapter, the Village will
provide at least one sign which must be prominently displayed within the
property or an adjacent right-of-way at a place visible from the adjacent
public or private street until the final disposition of an application. It is a
violation of this Code for any person to remove, destroy, deface, or tamper
with signage posted pursuant to this Chapter without Village authorization. The
applicable notice requirement is satisfied even when signage is damaged or
destroyed. The contents of the sign must include, at a minimum:
a.   The action or relief sought by the applicant; and,
b.   The date, time, and location of the hearing(s) or meeting(s). A general
statement as to the regular meeting schedule of the Commission satisfies this
requirement.
4.   Open Meetings Act. In addition to these requirements, the Village will
fully comply with the requirements of the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/) for
meetings, including posted notice of meeting agenda on its website and
premises.
H.   Conduct of Public Hearings. Where this Chapter requires a public hearing
to be held, the following rules of procedure apply:
1.   Open Meetings Act. All public hearings are subject to the Open Meetings
Act (5 ILCS 120/).
2.   Representation. All interested parties may appear for themselves or be
represented by a person of their choosing.
3.   Submission of Testimony. All persons offering testimony at a public
hearing must testify under oath. An attorney must be sworn if he/she offers
testimony, but not if he/she is questioning a witness, summarizing witness
testimony, or addressing the body conducting the hearing on procedural issues.
All persons wishing to testify at the public hearing must state for the record
his/her name and place of residence. Written statements will be accepted prior
to the hearing to be entered into the public hearing record.
4.   Submission of Evidence. Any person may appear at a hearing and submit
evidence, upon receiving recognition from the Chair of the Commission. Any
person may ask relevant questions of other witnesses, but only through the
Chair and at the discretion of the Chair. All persons must state his/her name
for the record before submitting evidence or questioning a witness at the
public hearing.
5.   Redundant or Irrelevant Testimony. The Chair may use reasonable discretion
in determining when testimony has become redundant or is not relevant to the
proceedings.
6.   Continuances. The Chair, with approval of the Commission, may continue the
public hearing. In order to reopen the hearing, no new notice is required if a
hearing is continued to a date specified, provided that a public announcement
of the future date, time, and place of the continued hearing is made at the
hearing and placed in the minutes. If the hearing is adjourned, rather than
continued to a date specified, in order to reopen the hearing all notices must
be given that would have been required for the initial public hearing.
I.   Conclusion of Reviews (Authorizations).
1.   Reviews Cumulative. Any Review or Authorization under this Chapter is a
cumulative requirement of Title 9 and Title 10 of this Code. No Authorization
allows Work to be undertaken except upon the applicant’s receipt of every
permit or approval that may be required by the codes and ordinances of the
Village, including without limitation demolition and building permits.
2.   Mutually Agreed Conditions of Approval.
a.   Purpose. The Commission and the Owner may mutually agree to specific
conditions or restrictions that advance the purpose and goals of this Chapter.
Without limitation, examples of such conditions may include:
(1)   The donation or gift of specified Features to a unit of government or a
non-profit organization concerned with restoration, rehabilitation, local
history, archaeology, or neighborhood conservation or revitalization.
(2)   Deferral of the unelapsed portion of a Review delay, such that the Work
may proceed yet the Commission may later consider the design of improvements to
be subsequently constructed whether or not such improvements would otherwise be
subject to Review by the Commission.
(3)   The Owner’s subsequent Certification of any remaining Protected Features.
(4)   The Owner’s commitment to restore, rehabilitate, or reinvest in other
Features outside the scope of the Work under review. Such Features may be
Protected or otherwise be important to the special character of a streetscape
or area.
b.   Enforcement.
(1)   It is a violation of this Chapter to proceed with Work contrary to any
Mutually Agreed Conditions unless and until a new Review is conducted and a new
Authorization obtained.
(2)   The Building Commissioner may withhold permits to authorize Work contrary
to any Mutually Agreed Conditions unless and until a new Review is conducted
and a new Authorization obtained.
(3)   The Commission may require that the Owner enter into a binding covenant
providing that the Owner and all subsequent Owners of the Property will fulfill
any Mutually Agreed Conditions. Such a requirement runs with the land unless
and until it is either satisfied or released by the Commission or the Village
Board of Trustees by order, resolution, or ordinance duly adopted.
3.   Administrative Changes to Authorizations. The Building Commissioner may
administratively approve the following changes to an Authorization without
further review by the Commission, or may refer them to the Commission for
further review:
a.   Reductions to Scope of Demolitions. The Building Commissioner may
administratively approve any reduction to the scope of a Demolition.
b.   Changes Requested by the State of Illinois Historic Preservation Office.
The Building Commissioner may administratively approve any change to an
Alteration that is requested by the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office.
c.   Minor Changes. The Building Commissioner may approve minor changes that,
in his sole discretion, satisfy all of the following:
(1)   The change is necessary to, and consistent with, proper completion of the
Work reviewed by the Commission;
(2)   The change is the minimum necessary to overcome the particular difficulty
encountered;
(3)   The change is not inconsistent with the purpose and goals of this
Chapter; and,
(4)   The change does not violate any condition of approval, including any
Mutually Agreed Conditions.
d.   All Other Changes. All changes referred to the Commission will be reviewed
only in accordance with the same procedures and standards established under
this Chapter for an original application, including a full set of updated
application materials.
J.   Successive Applications.
1.   Second Applications Without New Grounds Barred For One Year. Whenever any
application filed pursuant to this Chapter has been finally denied on its
merits, a second application seeking essentially the same relief, whether or
not in the same form or on the same theory, must not be brought for a period of
one year unless, in the opinion of the Building Commissioner or the Commission,
there is substantial new evidence available or a mistake of law or fact
significantly affected the prior denial.
2.   New Grounds to be Stated. Any such second application must include a
detailed statement of the grounds justifying consideration of such application.
3.   Summary Denial With or Without Hearing. Any such second application may be
denied by the Building Commissioner summarily, and without hearing, on a
finding that no grounds appear that warrant a new hearing. In any case where
such application is set for hearing, the applicant is required to establish
grounds warranting reconsideration of the merits of its application prior to
being allowed to offer any evidence on the merits. Unless such grounds are
established, the application may be summarily dismissed for such failure.
4.   Second Applications After One Year. Whether or not new grounds are stated,
any such second application filed more than one year after the final denial of
a prior application will be heard on the merits as though no prior application
had been filed. All evidence from any prior applications and proceedings, to
the extent available, will be deemed admitted to the Commission and made part
of the new record. The applicant is required to place in the record all
evidence available concerning changes of conditions or new facts that have
developed since the denial of the prior application. In the absence of such
evidence, it is presumed that no new facts exist to support the new petition
that did not exist at the time of the denial of the prior application.
K.   Adjustments to Fees for Protected or Certified Status. Various Sections of
the Municipal Code provide for special treatment of properties based on their
status under this Chapter, including without limitation the increase or
reduction in fees or taxes otherwise due. Where such adjustments are provided,
the following eligibility rules apply:
1.   Where a Property is certified, the Property in its entirety and any
activity thereupon is treated as Certified.
2.   Where any Feature on a Property is Protected yet the Property is not
Certified, the Property in its entirety and any activity thereupon is treated
as Protected. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-15: CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION:
A.   Purpose. The Commission must find that at least one of the following
criteria is applicable when weighing whether to recommend that a Feature be
designated a Landmark.
B.   General Considerations.
1.   The Feature has significant character, interest, or value as part of the
historic, aesthetic, cultural, or architectural characteristics of the Village,
the state of Illinois, or the United States.
2.   The Feature is closely identified with a person or persons who
significantly contributed to the development of the Village, the state of
Illinois, or the United States.
3.   The Feature involves the notable efforts of, or is the only known example
of work by, a master builder, designer, architect, architectural firm, or
artist whose individual accomplishment has influenced the development of the
Village, state of Illinois, or the United States.
4.   The unique location or singular physical characteristics of a Feature make
it an established or familiar visual feature.
5.   The activities associated with a Feature make it a current or former focal
point of reference in the Village.
6.   The Feature is of a type or is associated with a use once common but now
rare, or is a particularly fine or unique example of a utilitarian Feature and
possesses a high level of integrity or architectural significance.
7.   The Feature has yielded or is likely to yield historically significant
information, or even prehistoric data.
C.   Architectural Significance.
1.   The Feature represents certain distinguishing characteristics of
architecture inherently valuable for the study of a time period, type of
property, method of construction, or use of indigenous materials.
2.   The Feature embodies elements of design, detail, material, or
craftsmanship of exceptional quality.
3.   The Feature exemplifies a particular architectural style in terms of
detail, material, and workmanship which has resulted in little or no alteration
to its original construction.
4.   The Feature is one of the few remaining examples of a particular
architectural style and has undergone little or no alteration since its
original construction.
5.   The Feature is, or is part of, a contiguous grouping that has a sense of
cohesiveness expressed through a similarity of style characteristics, time
period, type of property, method of construction, or use of indigenous
materials and accents the architectural significance of an area.
6.   The detail, material, and workmanship of the Feature can be valued in and
of themselves as reflective of or similar to those of the majority of the other
visual elements in the area.
7.   The Landscape is significant in its own right as a work of landscape
architecture and not merely as a complementary setting for one or more
Structures or Buildings.
D.   Historic Significance.
1.   The Feature is an exceptional example of an historic or vernacular style,
or is one of the few such remaining of its kind in the Village.
2.   The Feature has a strong association with the life or activities of a
person or persons who significantly contributed to or participated in the
historic or cultural events of the United States, the state of Illinois, or the
Village.
3.   The Feature is associated with an organization or group, whether formal or
informal, from which persons have significantly contributed to or participated
in the historic or cultural events of the United States, the state of Illinois,
or the Village.
4.   The Feature is associated with a notable historic event.
5.   The Feature is associated with an antiquated use due to technological or
social advances.
6.   The Feature is a monument to, or a cemetery of, a historic person or
persons. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-20: DEMOLITION REVIEW FOR BUILDINGS MORE THAN 50 YEARS OLD:
A.   Review Required; Purpose. The Commission will review any proposed
Demolition of a Building that is over 50 years old that is not subject to
another Review under this Chapter in order to evaluate if the subject Building
(s) satisfies the criteria for designation provided in Section
9-14-15.
B.   Who May Apply. Any Qualified Representative may apply, as or on behalf of
an Owner, for Demolition Review.
C.   Application. In addition to the general requirements of Section
9-14-10 concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   A complete Demolition Letter of Intent; and,
2.   A complete demolition review questionnaire, as the Commission may
establish from time to time by resolution duly adopted.
D.   Public Notice (Sign). The Village will provide one or more signs for the
subject property announcing the Demolition Review as provided in Section
9-14-10.
E.   Procedure. Upon receipt of a complete application and upon reasonable
notice to the applicant, the Commission will conduct its review at a regular or
special meeting of the Commission. The Commission will examine whether the
subject Building or other Features on the Property meet the criteria for
designation provided in Section
9-14-15. Following an initial review meeting, the Commission may continue its
review at subsequent meetings or may allow the delay period to elapse without
any further consideration.
F.   Maximum Review Duration (Demolition Delay). A delay of 90 days applies
following the submittal of a complete application. After the delay expires, the
applicant may notify the Building Commissioner in writing that it no longer
intends to participate in the Demolition Review process. After such
notification, and notwithstanding any determination of the Commission, the
Demolition Review is terminated; the Work is Authorized; and the Building
Commissioner will evaluate the Work strictly on its merits under all other
Village codes and regulations. The 90 day delay period is modified under the
following conditions:
1.   Termination by Commission. The Commission may terminate its review at any
time after it determines that the subject Building does not satisfy the
criteria for designation provided in Section
9-14-15; provided, that the Commission is not required to terminate its review
upon such a finding. The Commission may not terminate its review under this
Subsection unless the sign required by this Section has been posted for at
least seven days.
2.   Termination by Designation. If any Feature on the Property is or becomes a
Protected Feature, it is ineligible for Review under this Section. The Work is
thereafter subject to Advisory Review. Where a pending application causes a
Feature to become Protected, but the application ultimately fails, such failure
is Authorization for the Work.
3.   Extension by Village Board of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees may,
in its sole discretion and by resolution duly adopted, extend the time period
for up to an additional 30 days where it determines that an extension will
promote the purpose of this Section, the purpose and goals of this Chapter, and
the public welfare without causing undue hardship on the applicant, which
resolution will set forth what objectives the Village Board aims to achieve
during the extension. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-25: DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS:
A.   Purpose. The designation of a Landmark recognizes and protects specified
Features of special historic, visual, aesthetic, cultural, archaeological, and/
or architectural significance.
B.   Who May Apply. A Landmark nomination may be submitted by any one of the
following parties:
1.   One or more Commissioners.
2.   The Village Board of Trustees.
3.   The Owner of the Property where the Feature(s) to be designated as a
landmark are located.
C.   Form of Application. In addition to the general requirements of Section
9-14-10 concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   A statement describing why each Feature to be designated as a landmark is
meritorious for designation as a landmark in view of the criteria for
designation in Section
9-14-15;
2.   Photographs of each Feature to be designated as a landmark as viewed from
each adjacent public or private street; and,
3.   Other available information, such as elevation drawings and historic
records, that may further substantiate the present condition and significance
of each Feature to be designated as a landmark.
D.   Notice. The Village will publish notice and provide mailed notice to each
affected Owner as well as surrounding property owners, all as provided in
Section
9-14-10.
E.   Stay of Proceedings. Immediately upon the filing of a complete
application, any Feature proposed to be designated as a landmark is Protected
and subject to the applicable Review provisions of this Chapter during the
pendency of the landmark application.
F.   Procedure.
1.   Commission Recommendation. Upon receipt of an application and after the
required notice has been provided, the Commission must consider the application
at a public hearing within 90 days following the receipt of a completed
application. The Commission may recommend the Village Board designate a
landmark where, based on the record of the hearing, the proposed Feature(s)
satisfy one or more of the criteria provided in Section
9-14-15; or may recommend the Village Board deny the application where the
Feature(s) does not satisfy the criteria based on the record of the hearing.
The affirmative vote of at least four Commissioners is required to make a
recommendation to the Village Board.
2.   Failure to Act by Commission. If the Commission does not, or cannot, act
to either recommend or not recommend the designation of a landmark within 90
days after the date of the Commission’s first meeting to consider an
application, such inaction acts as an automatic recommendation that the Village
Board deny the application.
3.   Village Board Consideration of Designation. The Village Board will
initiate and complete consideration of establishing the proposed landmark
within 90 days of the Commission’s recommendation. The Village Board will
review and give due consideration to the findings, recommendations, and record
of the Commission in determining to recommend the designation of a landmark.
The Village Board may, by ordinance duly adopted, designate the landmark where,
based on the evidence presented, the proposed Feature(s) satisfies the criteria
provided in Section
9-14-15.
4.   Failure to Act by Village Board. If the Village Board does not, or cannot,
act to either approve or deny the designation of a landmark within 90 days
after the date of the Commission’s recommendation, such inaction acts as an
automatic denial of the application.
G.   Effect of Designation.
1.   Recordation of Ordinance. The Building Commissioner will cause the
enacting Ordinance to be recorded in the office of the Lake County Recorder of
Deeds.
2.   Notice to Owners. The Building Commissioner will cause notice to be
delivered to the Owner advising them of the designation and of the Review
requirements that will thereafter apply to the Property.
3.   Review of Alterations and Demolitions Required. Any Feature designated as
a landmark is a Protected Feature and is thereafter subject to Advisory Review
or, where a Certification is present, Certificate Review.
H.   Withdrawal of Designation.
1.   Automatic Withdrawal of Designation. The landmark designation of a
Protected Feature that has been Demolished (i) in accordance and compliance
with this Chapter and Demolished pursuant to a valid demolition permit, or (ii)
the Protected Feature has been completely destroyed by natural destruction, is
automatically withdrawn as of the date of demolition without hearing or
decision.
2.   By Application.
a.   Conditions for Withdrawal. No Landmark designation may be withdrawn except
where:
(1)   The reasons for which the designation was once appropriate are no longer
present, including without limitation, because: such qualities have been lost
or destroyed, or additional information has been discovered;
(2)   The original designation was clearly in error; or,
(3)   There was prejudicial procedural error in the designation process.
b.   Procedure. The procedure to consider withdrawing a landmark designation is
the same as provided in this Section for the initial designation of a Landmark,
including the qualifications of applicants; notice; hearings before the
Commission; and final action by the Village Board.
3.   Notice. The Building Commissioner will cause notice of withdrawal to be
delivered to the Owner and recorded against the Property in the office of the
Lake County Recorder. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-30: CRITERIA FOR CHANGES TO PROTECTED FEATURES:
A.   Purpose. The Commission will consider the following criteria when weighing
the appropriateness of proposed Work concerning Protected Features and will
urge the Owner to incorporate the following criteria into any proposed Work.
B.   General Standards.
1.   Any Work should promote the purpose and goals of this Chapter and the
general welfare of the Village and its residents.
2.   Alterations that do not affect any essential architectural or historic
characteristics of a Feature, as viewed from any adjacent public or private
street, ordinarily should be permitted.
3.   The construction of new Structures and Buildings, and alterations to
Landscapes, should not be discouraged when such construction or alteration does
not destroy significant historical, architectural, or cultural characteristics
and is compatible with the size, scale, color, material, and character of the
existing Features, neighborhood, and/or environment.
4.   If possible, the construction of new Structures and Buildings, and
alterations to Landscapes, should be undertaken in such a manner that, if such
construction or alteration were to be removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the original Feature would be unimpaired.
5.   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a Feature and its
environment should not be destroyed. No modification or demolition of any
historic material or distinctive architectural element should be permitted
except when necessary to assure an economically viable use of a site.
6.   Demolition should not be undertaken if a Feature is economically viable in
its present condition or could be economically viable after completion of
appropriate modifications, even if demolition would permit a more profitable
use.
C.   Rehabilitation Guidelines.
1.   Reasonable efforts should be made to use a Feature for its originally
intended purpose or to provide a compatible use that requires minimal
modification of a Feature and its environment.
2.   All Features should be recognized as products of their own time.
Modifications that have no historic basis and that seek to create an earlier
appearance than the true age of the property are discouraged.
3.   Changes that may have taken place over time evidence the history and
development of a Feature and its environment. These changes may have acquired
significance in their own right, and this significance should be recognized and
respected when dealing with a specific architectural period.
4.   Distinctive stylistic elements or examples of skilled craftsmanship that
characterize a Feature should be maintained and preserved if possible.
5.   Deteriorated architectural elements should be repaired rather than
replaced, if possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new material
should match the material being replaced in composition, design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural elements should be based on accurate duplications of elements,
substantiated by historic, physical, or pictorial evidence, rather than
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other Buildings or Structures.
6.   Surface and other forms of cleaning of a Feature should be undertaken with
the gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage a Feature should be avoided.
D.   Architectural Design Guidelines.
1.   The height of a Feature after alteration should be compatible with the
height of the original Feature.
2.   The relationship between a Feature and adjacent open spaces after its
alteration should be compatible with such relationship prior to such
alteration.
3.   The relationship among the height, width, and scale of a Feature after
alteration should be compatible with such relationship prior to such
alteration.
4.   The directional expression of a Feature after alteration, whether its
vertical or horizontal positioning, should be compatible with the directional
expression of the original Feature.
5.   The roof shape of a Feature after alteration should be compatible with the
roof shape of the original Feature.
6.   The architectural details, general design, materials, textures, and colors
of a Feature after alteration should be compatible with the architectural
details, general design, materials, textures, and colors of the original
Feature.
7.   The appurtenances, including, without limitation, signs, fences,
landscaping, accessory structures, and pavings, of a Feature after alteration
should be compatible with the appurtenances of the original Feature.
E.   Secretary of the Interior Guidance. In addition to the foregoing
guidelines, the Commission may consider the most recent revision of the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation (36 CFR 67) and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-35: ADVISORY REVIEW OF CHANGES TO PROTECTED FEATURES:
A.   Review Required; Purpose. No Alteration or Demolition may occur to a
Protected Feature without first satisfying the requirements of this Section
except if a Certification applies. The Commission will review any such proposed
Alteration to or Demolition in order to:
1.   Evaluate the consistency of any proposed Work with the Criteria provided
in Section
9-14-30 and either:
a.   Allow Work that is generally consistent with the criteria to proceed
expediently and with a minimum of procedural delay; or,
b.   For Work that is inconsistent, attempt to reach mutually satisfactory
resolutions that satisfy the Owner’s interests and the Commission’s concerns.
2.   Allow the Commission to provide an applicant with information and best
practices concerning historic rehabilitations, restorations, and adaptive
reuses within the Village.
B.   Who May Apply. Any Qualified Representative may apply, as or on behalf of
an Owner, for Advisory Review.
C.   Application. In addition to the general requirements of Section
9-14-10 concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   For a request for Demolition of a Building, whether or not Protected, a
complete Demolition Letter of Intent is required.
2.   For all other requests subject to Advisory Review, a detailed description
of the proposed Work is required, as well as any architectural drawings,
sketches, and photographs indicating how and to what extent the Work will
affect any Protected Features. Such information may be in the form of a partial
or complete application for a building permit.
D.   Notice.
1.   Protected Demolition (Mailed and Sign). Where the Demolition of a
Protected Feature is proposed, the Village will provide mailed notice to
surrounding properties as well as one or more signs for the subject property
announcing that it is under Advisory Review, all as provided in Section
9-14-10.
2.   Demolitions Over 50 Years Old (Sign). Where the Demolition of a Building
over 50 years old is proposed, the Village will provide one or more signs for
the subject property announcing that it is under Advisory Review as provided in
Section
9-14-10.
3.   All Other Work (Sign). For all other requests, the Village will promptly
provide one or more signs for the subject property announcing that it is under
Advisory Review as provided in Section
9-14-10 only if the Review is not terminated after the Commission’s first
consideration of the Review.
E.   Procedure.
1.   Initial Meeting. Upon receipt of an application and after providing any
required public notice as well as reasonable notice to the applicant, the
Commission will conduct its review at a regular or special meeting of the
Commission. At the conclusion of its initial review during the meeting, the
Commission must, by motion, determine that:
a.   The Work is not inconsistent with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30 and that no further review is necessary, thereby terminating Advisory
Review as described in Subsection F(1) of this Section;
b.   The Work is inconsistent with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30, and further review is necessary; or
c.   Insufficient information is present to determine the Work’s consistency
with the criteria provided in Section 9-14-30, thereby requiring further
review.
Exception: Where notice by a posted sign is required by this Section, the
determination required by this Subsection must be deferred until the sign has
been posted for at least seven days.
2.   Subsequent Meetings. Following its initial review meeting, the Commission
may continue to review the Work in subsequent meetings or may allow the delay
period to elapse without any further consideration.
F.   Maximum Review Duration (Delay). No sooner than (i) 120 days following the
submittal of a complete application to Demolish a Protected Feature or a
Building that is not Protected but over 50 years old, or (ii) no sooner than 35
days following the submittal of a complete application for any other Work, the
applicant may notify the Building Commissioner in writing that it no longer
intends to participate in the Advisory Review process. After such notification,
and notwithstanding any determination of the Commission, the Advisory Review is
terminated, the Work is Authorized, and the Building Commissioner will evaluate
the Work strictly on its merits under all other Village codes and regulations.
The applicable delay period, whether 120 or 35 days, is modified under the
following conditions:
1.   Termination by Commission. The Commission may terminate Advisory Review if
it determines that the Work is consistent with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30; provided that the Work need not satisfy each and every criteria
provided therein. Where notice by a posted sign is required by this Section,
the Commission may not terminate its review under this Subsection unless the
sign has been posted for at least seven days.
2.   Extension by Village Board of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees may,
in its sole discretion and by resolution duly adopted, extend the time period
for Advisory Review by 30 days where it determines that an extension will
promote the purpose of this Section, the purpose and goals of this Chapter, and
the public welfare without causing undue hardship on the applicant. The
resolution must set forth what objectives the Village Board aims to achieve
during the extension.
3.   Extension for Failure to Appear. The maximum time period set forth in this
subsection shall be tolled and not run if the applicant fails to participate in
at least one Advisory Review meeting. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-40: VOLUNTARY CERTIFICATION OF PROTECTED FEATURES:
A.   Purpose. This Section allows an Owner of Protected Features to voluntarily
consent to a higher level of review for future changes to their property. This
additional rigor of review provides the Owner and the community with the
maximum assurance available under this Chapter that the special historic,
architectural, and cultural features present upon their property will be
preserved for future enjoyment even after any future change in ownership.
Additionally, Certification may provide the Owner with access to additional
financial incentives that are not available to other Protected Features that
are not Certified.
B.   Who May Apply. The Owner of a Property where one or more Protected
Features are located may apply for Certification.
C.   Procedure. The Village Administrator is authorized to accept and enter
into a Certification on behalf of the Village and cause it to be recorded
against the Property in the office of the Lake County Recorder. The
Certification must run with the Property and bind future Owners to irrevocably
consent to the Certificate Review provided in Section
9-14-10.
D.   Extinguishment of Certification. No Certification may be withdrawn,
revoked, or extinguished except:
1.   By the Village Board. The Board of Trustees may extinguish a Certification
by ordinance or resolution duly adopted. No hearing is required prior to the
Board’s consideration of extinguishment. There is no procedural right to apply
to the Village Board to compel its consideration of extinguishment.
2.   By Operation of this Chapter. When every landmark designation has been
withdrawn from the property such that no Protected Features remain, the
Property’s Certification is extinguished automatically without hearing or
decision.
Where a Certification is extinguished, the Building Commissioner will deliver
notice of the same to the Owner and cause a release to be recorded against the
Property in the office of the Lake County Recorder. (Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
9-14-45: CERTIFICATE REVIEW FOR CERTIFIED FEATURES:
A.   Review Required; Purpose. No Alteration or Demolition may occur to a
Certified Feature without first satisfying the requirements of this Section.
The Commission will review any such proposed Alteration to or Demolition in
order to:
1.   Evaluate the consistency of any proposed Work with the criteria provided
in Section
9-14-30 and either:
a.   Allow Work that is generally consistent with the criteria to proceed
expediently and with a minimum of procedural delay; or,
b.   For Work that is inconsistent, attempt to reach mutually satisfactory
resolutions that satisfy the Owner’s interests and the Commission’s concerns.
2.   Allow the Commission to provide an applicant with information and best
practices concerning historic rehabilitations, restorations, and adaptive
reuses within the Village.
B.   Who May Apply. Any Qualified Representative may apply, as or on behalf of
an Owner, for Certificate Review.
C.   Application. In addition to the general requirements of Section
9-14-10 concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   For a request for Demolition of a Building, whether or not Protected, a
complete Demolition Letter of Intent is required.
2.   For all other requests subject to Certificate Review, a detailed
description of the proposed Work is required, as well as any architectural
drawings, sketches, and photographs indicating how and to what extent the Work
will affect any Certified Features. Such information may be in the form of a
partial or complete application for a building permit.
D.   Notice.
1.   Demolition (Mailed and Sign). Where the Demolition of a Protected Feature
is proposed, the Village will provide mailed notice to surrounding properties
as well as one or more signs for the subject property announcing that it is
under Certificate Review, all as provided in Section
9-14-10.
2.   All Other Requests (Sign). For all other requests, the Village will
provide one or more signs for the subject property announcing that it is under
Certificate Review as provided in Section
9-14-10 only if the Review is not terminated after the Commission’s first
consideration of the Review.
E.   Procedure.
1.   Certificate of Appropriateness. An applicant may seek the Commission’s
approval of an Alteration or Demolition by demonstrating that it is consistent
with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30. It is the burden of the applicant to establish these circumstances.
Upon receipt of an application and after providing any required public notice
as well as reasonable notice to the applicant, the Commission must conduct its
review at a regular or special meeting of the Commission. At the conclusion of
each meeting to conduct the review, the Commission must, by motion and with the
affirmative vote of at least four Commissioners, make one of the following
determinations:
a.   Approved. The proposed Work is consistent with the criteria provided in
Section
9-14-30, upon which finding the Certificate Review is terminated and the Work
Authorized;
b.   Approved with Conditions. The proposed Work would be consistent with the
criteria provided in Section
9-14-30 if the Work is undertaken subject to certain conditions, upon which
finding the Certificate Review is concluded and the Work Authorized subject to
said conditions. Said conditions are binding upon the applicant if the Work is
undertaken unless appealed prior to the commencement of the Work.
c.   Continuance or Denial. That the Certificate Review should be continued, or
the application denied, because either:
(1)   The Work is inconsistent with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30; or
(2)   Insufficient information is present to determine the Work’s consistency
with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30, or additional investigation or time for consideration is necessary;
provided that the applicant must be provided a minimum of one continuance to
provide additional information for the Commission before a denial on this
basis.
2.   Certificate of Economic Hardship. As an alternative to a Certificate of
Appropriateness, or subsequent to the denial or conditional approval of a
Certificate of Appropriateness, an applicant may seek the Commission’s approval
of an Alteration or Demolition in spite of acknowledged inconsistency with the
criteria provided in Section
9-14-30 by demonstrating the presence of a financial hardship as the Property
cannot be put to a reasonable beneficial use or that the Owner cannot obtain a
reasonable economic return from the Property absent the proposed Work. It is
the burden of the applicant to establish these circumstances.
a.   Evidence of Hardship. Any applicant seeking a Certificate of Economic
Hardship is encouraged to submit all of the following additional information as
may be available to substantiate the claimed hardship and to assist the
Commission in its determination:
(1)   Evidence of any attempt to contact the State Historic Preservation Agency
to apply for any favorable treatment available for historic properties under
statute.
(2)   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with experience in
rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of the building or structure on
the property and its suitability for and the economic feasibility of
rehabilitation or reuse.
(3)   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the party
from whom purchased (including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased).
(4)   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according to the
two (2) most recent assessments.
(5)   Real estate taxes for the previous two (2) years.
(6)   Remaining balance mortgage, if any, and annual debt service, if any, for
the previous two (2) years.
(7)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the owner or
applicant or their lenders in connection with the purchase, financing, or
ownership of the property.
(8)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked, and offers
received, if any.
(9)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for the
property.
(10)   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from the
property for the previous two (2) years, itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two (2) years, and annual cash flow before and after
debt service, if any, during the same period.
(11)   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for profit or not for profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture, or other.
(12)   Any other information, including the income tax bracket of the owner,
applicant, or principal investors in the property, reasonably necessary for a
determination as to whether the property can be reasonably sold or yield a
reasonable return to present or future owners.
b.   Initial Meeting. Upon receipt of an application and after providing any
required public notice as well as reasonable notice to the applicant, the
Commission will conduct its review at a regular or special meeting of the
Commission. At the conclusion of its initial review and any continuation, the
Commission must, by motion, conclude that:
(1)   The applicant has established that, based on the evidence provided, a
financial hardship may exist that is meritorious of further study by the
Village; or,
(2)   The applicant has failed to demonstrate that a financial hardship exists,
and the application is denied.
c.   Study Period. If the Commission finds that a financial hardship may exist
absent approval of the proposed Work, any further consideration of the
application is to be delayed for a period not to exceed 60 days. During this
period of delay, the Commission will make recommendations to the Village Board
to alleviate the alleged financial hardship or to otherwise preserve the
subject property. Such plans and recommendations may include, without
limitation: a relaxation of the provisions of this Chapter; a reduction in real
property taxes; financial assistance; building code modifications; and/or
zoning or subdivision relief.
d.   Decision on Approval. The Commission may issue a Certificate of Economic
Hardship to Authorize the Work where it determines, by the affirmative vote of
at least four Commissioners, that a financial hardship persists at the end of
the Study Period.
3.   Notice to Owner. If the Owner is not present when an application is denied
or approved with conditions, the Building Commissioner will cause notice of the
Commission’s decision to be served either by personal delivery or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The Owner is deemed notified of the decision as
of the date of mailing.
F.   Appeals. Where a Certificate Review is denied or approved with conditions,
the applicant may appeal the Commission’s decision to the Village Board by
filing an appeal in writing with the Village Administrator within 15 days of
being notified of the decision. The Village Board’s review is not a public
hearing. The Board may receive comments on the contents of the record but no
new matter may be considered by the Village Board unless such matter is new or
was not known at the time of the Commission’s deliberations. The Village Board
will review and give due consideration to the findings, recommendations, and
record of the Commission and thereafter may affirm the Commission’s decision or
else provide approval to the applicant with or without conditions. (Ord. 2022-
10, 3-28-2022)
TABLE I
LIST OF LANDMARK FEATURES
Ordinance Feature Address
Ordinance Feature                                     Address
2005-04   Lake Bluff Village Hall (Building)          40 E. Center Ave.
          Stonebridge Manor House (Building)          0-230 Jensen Lane
2005-16   Stonebridge Gate House (Building)           f.k.a. 136 Green Bay Road
          Jens Jensen Landscape (Landscape)
2005-24   T-Form Camp Meeting Cottage (Building)      548 E. Scranton Ave.
          “Claire Haven” House (Building)
2005-29   Detached Garage (Building)                  700 E. Center Ave.
          Masonry Wall and Features (Structure)
2006-04   John Magaw House (Building)                 525 E. Center Ave.
2006-20   Rev. Charles Trusdell House (Building)      115 E. Center Ave.
2006-08   Elmer Vilet House (Building)                401 E. Prospect Ave.
          Elmet Vilet Cottage (Building)
2007-01   Frank Lloyd Wright Bungalow (Building)      231 E. Prospect Ave.
2007-03   Munroe and Virginia Winter House (Building) 333 Crescent Dr.
2007-08   Harlan Colonial Revival House (Building)    271 Ravine Forest Dr.
2008-06   Caroline Morse Ely Estate - Orangerie       113 Moffett Rd.
          (Building)
2008-30   John Murdock House (Building)               550 E. Center Ave.
2009-02   Richard Reuter House (Building)             319 Crescent Dr.
2010-08   John Nash Ott House (Building)              1799 Shore Acres Rd.
          Crab Tree Farm (Estate Parcel)
2012-15   (Buildings, Structures, and Landscapes -    982 N. Sheridan Rd.
          See Ordinance)
2012-16   Crab Tree Farm (Farm Parcel) (Buildings and 975 N. Sheridan Rd.
          Structures - See Ordinance)
2016-10   Ralph Poole House (Building)                1010 Green Bay Rd.
2018-11   William Edward Sims House (Building)        673 Maple Ave.
2018-19   Camp Meeting Cottage (Building)             406 Prospect Ave.
2018-20   Harlan Colonial Revival House (II)          502 Prospect Ave.
          (Building)
2018-23   French Eclectic Camp Cottage (Building)     415 Prospect Ave.
2018-24   Cornish / Cochran House (Building)          400 Ravine Ave.
2018-25   Cloes House (Partial Building)              419 Prospect Ave.
2024-3    Frank A. Ross House (Building)              331 E. Witchwood Lane
2024-4    James B. and Mary Marilla Hobbs House       125 E. Center Avenue
 
(Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
CHAPTER 15
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
SECTION:
9-15-1: Adoption Of International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
9-15-2: Amendments To The International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
9-15-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the village the 2018 International Swimming Pool and
Spa Code (hereinafter the “swimming pool code”), which is incorporated as if
fully set forth herein.
The State of Illinois has promulgated rules and regulations for public swimming
pools, spas and beaches under Illinois administrative code title 77 chapter 1
subchapter n part 820. Additional references to this can be found under 210
Illinois Compiled Statutes 125 et seq. The adoption of the 2018 International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code does not supersede the State of Illinois rules and
regulations/laws unless the swimming pool code is more restrictive in
requirements. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-
2023)
9-15-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
305.1 Delete Section 305.1 and replace as follows:
“This Section shall apply to the design of barriers for restricting entry into
areas having pools and spas. Where spas or hot tubs are equipped with a
lockable safety cover complying with ASTN F1346, the area where those spas or
hot tubs are located shall not be required to comply with Section 305.2 through
305.7 of the swimming pool code.”
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 16
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-16-1: Adoption Of International Existing Building Code
9-16-2: Amendments To The International Existing Building Code
9-16-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the village the 2018 International Existing Building
Code (hereinafter the “Existing Building Code”), which is incorporated as if
fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023)
9-16-2: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the Existing Building Code are hereby amended,
revised, and changed as follows:
Add new section [A]101.4.3 Automatic Fire Sprinkler System, which shall read as
follows:
1.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this international existing building
code to the contrary, in all areas of the village, automatic fire sprinkler
systems must be installed and maintained in all newly constructed buildings.
2.   Any existing building (other than single family and two family residential
dwellings) that undergoes any work or renovations that requires a building
permit, has a change of use or occupancy type, or is improved with an addition
to the building shall be required to add an approved fire sprinkler system if
the fire sprinkler system would be required by the applicable sections of the
international existing buildings code. Except as otherwise specifically
prescribed, complete automatic fire sprinkler systems shall also be installed
wherever specified by this international building code.
3.   All existing non-residential buildings, mixed use buildings and multi-
family residential buildings with more than two residential units, shall
provide a complete automatic fire sprinkler system by January 1, 2026, except
that existing churches (A-3 use group section 303) are exempt.
4.   Whenever access to a building or structure will be unduly difficult
because of secured openings, and where immediate access will be required for
life saving and fire protection purposes, the fire code official may require an
approved key box to be in a readily accessible location approved by the fire
code official.
Add new section [A]101.4.4 Fire Alarm System, which shall read as follows:
“Where Required. Notwithstanding anything contained in this international
building code to the contrary, all newly constructed buildings, renovation and
remodeling, change of occupant, change of ownership or additions thereto in
non-residential zoned areas of the village and mixed use buildings and other
buildings in residential zoning districts, and all newly constructed attached
residential dwellings consisting of more than two units, or additions thereto,
shall have installed and maintained therein, an automatic fire alarm system.
Except as otherwise specifically prescribed, complete automatic fire alarm
systems shall also be installed wherever specified by this code.”
(Ord. 2013-4, 2-25-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-1, 2-13-2017, Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023;
Ord. 2023-29, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 17
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECYCLING
SECTION:
9-17-1: Definitions
9-17-2: Applicability
9-17-3: Condition Of Approval For Building Or Demolition Permits
9-17-4: Diversion Requirements
9-17-5: Permit Application And Compliance Report
9-17-6: Exceptions
9-17-7: Inspections, Inquiries And Audits
9-17-8: Enforcement And Penalties
9-17-9: Appeals
9-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
APPLICANT: A person who applies to the village for the applicable permits to
undertake any construction project that is subject to this chapter.
CODE OFFICIAL: The building commissioner of the village.
CONSTRUCTION: All on site work done in building new structures from land
clearance to completion, including excavation, erection and the assembly and
installation of components and equipment without limitation.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS OR C&D DEBRIS: Nonhazardous, uncontaminated
materials resulting from the construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition
of utilities, structures, and roads, limited to the following: bricks,
concrete, and other masonry materials; soil; rock; wood, including nonhazardous
painted, stained, treated and coated wood and wood products; wall coverings;
plaster; drywall; plumbing fixtures; nonasbestos insulation; roofing shingles
and other roof coverings; reclaimed or other asphalt pavement; glass plastics
that are not sealed in a manner that conceals waste; electrical wiring and
components containing no hazardous substances; and corrugated cardboard, piping
or other metals incidental to any of those materials. C&D debris includes
landscaping but does not include excavated soil or land clearing debris. C&D
debris that is processed for use at a landfill means C&D debris that is
processed for use at a municipal solid waste landfill unit as alternative daily
cover road building material in accordance with the landfill's waste disposal
permit issued by the Illinois environmental protection agency or other
applicable state regulatory agency.
DEMOLITION: Shall have the meaning provided in subsection 9-1-18A of this
title.
DEPARTMENT: The building department of the village.
DIVERT AND DIVERSION: To manage, sort and process C&D debris into recyclable
C&D debris, recovered wood that is processed for use as fuel, and/or C&D debris
that is processed for use at a landfill.
INERT DEBRIS: Those materials which are virtually inert, such as rock, brick
and concrete.
PERMIT: Any building or demolition permit as validly issued by the village.
PROJECT: Any project, unless otherwise exempt under this chapter for
construction, renovation or demolition that meets one or more of the following
thresholds:
A.   Construction of new structures of two thousand (2,000) square feet or more
of gross floor area.
B.   Renovations of two thousand (2,000) square feet or more of gross floor
area.
C.   "Demolition" as defined in subsection 9-1-18A of this title; and
D.   Any residential or commercial construction or renovation project of four
(4) or more individual units.
RECOVERED WOOD THAT IS PROCESSED FOR USE AS FUEL: Wood that has been salvaged
from C&D debris and processed for use as fuel, as authorized by any applicable
state or federal environmental regulatory authority, and supplied only to
intermediate processing facilities for sizing, or to combustion facilities for
use as fuel, that have obtained all necessary waste management and air permits
for handling and combustion of the fuel.
RECYCLABLE C&D DEBRIS: C&D debris that has been rendered reusable and is reused
or that would otherwise be disposed of or disposed of or discarded but is
collected, separated, or processed and returned to the economic mainstream in
the form of raw materials or products. "Recyclable C&D debris" does not include
C&D debris processed for use as a fuel or for use at a landfill.
RENOVATION: The improvement alteration, repair, or reconstruction of an
existing structure including, without limitation, any addition(s) thereto.
(Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all projects within the village except: a) when an
immediate or emergency demolition is required to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare, as determined prior to such demolition by the code
officials, and b) when an exception is granted pursuant to section
9-17-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-3: CONDITION OF APPROVAL FOR BUILDING OR DEMOLITION PERMITS:
Compliance with the provisions of this chapter is a condition of approval for
all building or demolition permits issued for any project, unless the project
is otherwise exempt from permitting requirements. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-4: DIVERSION REQUIREMENTS:
At least seventy five percent (75%) of C&D debris from a site must be diverted;
of that amount of C&D debris use at a landfill shall not exceed thirty five
percent (35%) of the amount of C&D debris diverted for all projects subject to
this chapter and for which a building or demolition permit has been processed.
(Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-5: PERMIT APPLICATION AND COMPLIANCE REPORT:
A.   Submittal And Required Information: When submitting for a permit, the
applicant must provide to the village the name and contact information for
their recycling agent(s) and indicate how much C&D debris will be diverted and
recycled.
B.   Confirmation From Recycling Agent: Not less than five (5) business days
prior to the scheduled date for the final inspection, the applicant shall
submit to the code official a confirmation from their recycling agent(s) that
the C&D debris required to be recycled was in fact recycled and such additional
information as the code official may require.
C.   Limitation On Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy: No certificate of
occupancy or confirmation that a property in violation of this code has been
brought into compliance with this code shall be issued for any property on
which a covered project has been completed unless and until the confirmation as
described in subsection B of this section is received and approved by the code
official and the applicant pays all penalties imposed for any violation of this
code. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-6: EXCEPTIONS:
A.   Exceptional Project Circumstances: Applicants seeking a partial or
complete exception granting relief from the requirements of this chapter must
file with the department an application on a form provided by the department.
The application must include, in addition to such other information as the
department may require, a statement from a licensed professional engineer
certifying that compliance with this chapter is impracticable due to
exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the
project. The code official may grant the exception only if the code official in
his or her sole determination finds all of the following:
1.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the project that do not apply generally to similar projects and
that make compliance with this chapter impracticable;
2.   Granting the exception will not constitute a grant of special privilege
inconsistent with limitations imposed on similar projects which are subject to
this chapter; and
3.   Cost to the applicant of strict compliance with this chapter is not the
primary reason for granting the exception.
B.   Cost Based Exception: If a contractor receives a minimum of two (2) quotes
for a recycling option and a garbage option and the recycling option is in
excess of ten percent (10%) of the garbage option the contractor will be
exempted from this chapter. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-7: INSPECTIONS, INQUIRIES AND AUDITS:
The code official may make any and all inspections, inquiries and audits as
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Applicants who fail to satisfy the diversion requirements established in this
chapter or otherwise comply with the requirements of this chapter are subject
to the penalties set forth in this code. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
9-17-9: APPEALS:
Any person or entity aggrieved by any decision by the code official under the
provisions of this chapter or to granting or denying an application for an
exception from compliance with this chapter may file an appeal pursuant to this
code. (Ord. 2014-7, 4-28-2014)
CHAPTER 18
STORMWATER DRAINAGE
SECTION:
9-18-1: Adoption Of Chapter 11 Of The International Plumbing Code
9-18-2: Amendments To Chapter 11 Of The International Plumbing Code
9-18-1: ADOPTION OF CHAPTER 11 OF THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
Chapter 11 of the 2018 International Plumbing Code is hereby adopted
(hereinafter the “Stormwater Drainage Code”), which is incorporated as if fully
set forth herein, to regulate stormwater drainage. (Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016,
eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 5-8-2023)
9-18-2: AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 11 OF THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE:
The following sections of the 2018 International Plumbing Code are hereby
amended as set forth in this section. Subsequent section numbers used in this
chapter shall refer to like numbered sections of the plumbing code:
Section 1101.9 shall be deleted and replaced with the following:
“1101.9 All new storm direct connections to the main shall be cored and
installed with a core and T boot.”
Add new section, section 1101.10 as follows:
“All directionally bored storm lines shall be inspected after installation by
use of a video camera supplied by the contractor to verify integrity and proper
pitch of the pipe. Village inspector to be on site at the time the video is
taken.”
Add new section, section 1101.11 as follows:
“All new storm sewer pipe below grade shall be bedded in granular material
approved by the village. Granular material is required to be installed to a
level 4" above the pipe from a level 2" below the pipe.”
Section 1102 Materials shall be deleted and replaced with the following:
“1102.1 Pipe used for storm water drainage shall be of one of the following
materials or approved equal:
Cast iron pipe (hub & spigot) ASTM A74, CISPI HS 74, C564
HDPE polyethylene smooth interior wall plastic pipe ASTM F2648 (for use outside
of paved areas only)
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) SDR 26 ASTM 3034
Polyvinyl chloride schedule 40, ASTM 2665
Concrete pipe, reinforced
Cellular core pipe is not permitted.”
(Ord. 2016-7, 3-28-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-1, 2-13-2017; Ord. 2023-
14, 5-8-2023)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, RULES OF CONSTRUCTION, AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Applicability
10-1-4: Rules Of Construction
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Title 10 shall be known, referred to, and cited as the "Lake Bluff Zoning
Regulations." (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the Zoning Regulations are to:
A.   Planning: Implement and advance the goals and policies of the Village's
Comprehensive Plan.
B.   Community Character: Preserve and promote the Village's distinctive
community character through regulations designed specifically for these
purposes.
C.   Land Use: Encourage the appropriate and orderly development of land
throughout the Village, including the mixing of compatible uses of land; the
separation of incompatible uses of land; and the prohibition of generally
undesirable, inappropriate, or noxious uses of land. Provide for the gradual
elimination of nonconforming uses that adversely affect the character and value
of the types of development that are permissible under these Zoning
Regulations.
D.   Residential Areas: Maintain and enhance the Village's character as a
predominantly single-family residential community. Maintain and promote high-
quality housing stock and a superior quality of life in residential
neighborhoods. Encourage the creation of housing choices and the development of
alternative housing opportunities in compatible locations.
E.   Commercial Areas: Promote vital, well-maintained, and attractive
commercial areas that provide a variety of goods and services. Promote the
redevelopment of under-utilized commercial properties to increase the tax base
in a manner consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and the Village's land use
policies.
F.   Aesthetic Values: Preserve and enhance aesthetic values throughout the
Village. Encourage the attractive design of public property and facilities,
private commercial structures, and private residences.
G.   Natural Areas: Ensure the preservation of the Village's unique and
valuable natural resources, including its open and natural spaces; its
extensive tree canopy (both publicly and privately owned); its distinctive
bluffs, ravines, lakefront, and other topological features; and the rhythms of
manmade and natural spaces that help to define the Village's distinctive
character.
H.   Transportation: Minimize congestion in the public streets and rights-of-
way; ensure safe and efficient circulation of vehicles, bicyclists, and
pedestrians; and provide adequate and efficient off-street parking and loading
facilities.
I.   Public Facilities: Facilitate the most efficient use of existing and
planned public facilities, utilities, and operations. Protect these public
functions from being overloaded or degraded as a result of excess development.
J.   Public Health and Safety: Secure adequate natural light, clear air,
privacy, safety, and convenience of access to property. Manage and mitigate the
hazards of fire, flooding, and stormwater accumulation and runoff.
K.   Administration: Provide for the efficient, effective, and predictable
application of these Zoning Regulations, including their enforcement.
L.   General Welfare: Otherwise promote and protect the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the Village and its residents. (Ord. 2022-38,
12-12-2022)
10-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
A.   Territorial Application: The Zoning Regulations apply to all land, uses
and structures within the corporate limits of the Village, including those
owned by all government bodies to the maximum extent permitted by law.
B.   General Application: All structures, uses of land, structural alterations
or relocations of existing structures, and all enlargements and extensions of,
additions to, changes in, and relocations of existing uses shall be subject to
the Zoning Regulations applicable to the zoning districts in which such land,
structures, or uses are located except are specifically provided in this Title.
C.   Private Covenants and Agreements: The Zoning Regulations are not intended
to abrogate, annul, or otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant, or
other private agreement or legal relationship; provided, however, that where
the regulations of the Zoning Regulations are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or legal relationship, the Zoning Regulations shall govern.
D.   Other Laws and Regulations: Unless otherwise specifically provided, the
Zoning Regulations control over less restrictive statutes, ordinances or
regulations, and more restrictive statutes, ordinances or regulations control
over the provisions of the Zoning Regulations. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-1-4: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of the Zoning Regulations is interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
A.   Singular and Plural: The singular number includes the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
B.   Lists Are Without Limitation: Unless otherwise specifically indicated,
lists of items or examples that use terms such as "including," "such as," or
similar language are intended to provide examples and not to be exhaustive
lists of all possibilities.
C.   Headings, Illustrations, and Text: In case of any difference of meaning or
implication between the text of the Zoning Regulations and any heading,
drawing, table, figure or illustration, the text controls.
D.   Delegation of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head
of a Village department or another officer or employee of the Village to
perform an act or duty, that provision will be construed as authorizing the
department head or officer to delegate that responsibility to others over whom
they have authority. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this Title the following words and phrases are used, they shall,
for the purposes of this Title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
in this Section, except when the context otherwise clearly indicates. Whenever
in this Title other words are used, those other words shall have the meanings
normally ascribed to them:
               A dwelling unit that is an accessory use to a single-family dwelling and that
ACCESSORY      provides, independent of the principal single-family dwelling unit:
DWELLING UNIT: A.   A separate entrance that allows ingress and egress from the exterior of the
               property; and
               B.   Areas used for bathing, cooking, and sleeping.
               A structure or use that:
               A.   Is subordinate in extent and purpose to and serves a principal structure or
               use;
               B.    Is customarily found as an incident to a principal structure or use;
               C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of those occupying,
ACCESSORY      working at, or being served by a principal structure or use;
STRUCTURE OR   D.   Is located in its entirety on the same lot as a principal structure or use;
USE:           E.    Is under the same ownership and control as a principal structure or use;
               and
               F.   In residential areas (as well as in some nonresidential areas), is typically
               a garage, carport, shed, storage building, garden house, private greenhouse,
               swimming pool, hot tub or spa, accessory dwelling unit, children's play equipment
               and playhouses, basketball hoop or other fixed piece of sports equipment; but not
               including exterior heating, air conditioning, or ventilation units.
ADJACENT       Driveways located on adjoining properties that are less than five feet apart at
DRIVEWAYS:     any point.
               Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off from the remainder of
               such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers or partitions and used
ADULT BOOTH:   to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials or to view any live
               performance that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
               exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas or the conduct
               or simulation of specified sexual activities.
               Any commercial establishment that, as a substantial or significant portion of its
               business, features any of the following:
               A.   Persons who appear seminude.
               B.   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
               the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas or the
ADULT CABARET: conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
               C.   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer displays,
               or other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are distinguished
               or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of
               specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
               activities.
ADULT          An "adult cabaret", "adult store", or "adult theater", as defined in this
ENTERTAINMENT  section.
ESTABLISHMENT:
               Any of the following, whether new or used, if they are distinguished or
               characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of
               specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
               activities:
ADULT          A.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or digitally stored
MATERIAL:      materials;
               B.   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer displays,
               or other visual representations or recordings of any kind.
               C.    Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
               in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or describe
               specified anatomical areas.
               Any commercial establishment:
               A.   That contains one or more adult booths;
ADULT STORE:   B.    That, as a substantial or significant portion of its business, offers for
               sale, rental, or viewing any adult materials; or
               C.   That has a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of adult
               materials.
               Any commercial establishment that, as a substantial or significant portion of its
               business, features films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, or
ADULT THEATER: other visual representations or recordings that are distinguished or
               characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of
               specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
               activities.
               Any public way for vehicular or pedestrian travel by the public and designed and
               intended primarily as a means of access to and from the rear of properties. Where
               the rear line of a lot is along an alley, one-half (1/2) of the width of the
ALLEY:         alley may be assumed to be a portion of the rear yard of such lot for the purpose
               of determining compliance of the principal structure with the Bulk Regulations.
               Determination of setback requirements for accessory structures shall not include
               any portion of an adjacent alley.
               Any structure designed for transmitting signals to a receiving station or for
ANTENNA:       receiving television, radio, data, or other signals from satellites or other
               sources, or both.
ANTENNA
SUPPORT        Any structure used for the principal purpose of supporting an antenna.
STRUCTURE:
ARCHITECTURE   The Architecture Board of Review created pursuant to Section
BOARD OF       2-4-1 of this Code.
REVIEW OR ABR:
BASEMENT:      That portion of a structure, the floor of which is partly or totally below the
               surface of the ground that is adjacent to the perimeter of the structure.
BLOCK:         That property abutting on one side of a street between the two nearest
               intersecting streets, railroad rights of way, or other natural barriers.
               Any natural land area that has a drop in elevation from the top bluff edge equal
BLUFF:         to or greater than two feet vertical for every 10 feet horizontal, and that is
               located between the high water mark at the edge of Lake Michigan and the top
               bluff edge.
BLUFF          The area of a bluff plus the area of that portion of the bluff/ravine property
PROTECTION     that lies between the top bluff edge and the required setback established
AREA:          pursuant to subsection
               10-12-3B1 of this Title.
BLUFF/RAVINE   Any lot that contains a bluff, a ravine, or both.
PROPERTY:
               A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for the shelter,
BUILDING:      support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels. References to "building"
               shall, in all cases, be deemed to refer to both buildings and structures.
BUILDING       The building commissioner appointed by the Village Board of Trustees.
COMMISSIONER:
               A solar energy system that is accessory to a principal use and that: a) is an
               integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
BUILDING       mechanical device; b) replaces or substitutes for an architectural or structural
INTEGRATED     part of the building; and c) is flush with, and parallel to, a finished surface,
SOLAR ENERGY   at no more than six inches (6") in height above that surface. Building integrated
SYSTEM:        systems include, but are not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water systems that
               are contained within roofing materials, skylights, shading devices, and similar
               architectural components.
BUILDING       A solar energy system that is accessory to a principal use and professionally
MOUNTED SOLAR  mounted on the roof of a principal building or accessory structure.
ENERGY SYSTEM:
BUILDING
MOUNTED WIND   Wind energy systems that are structurally attached either onto the roof of or to
ENERGY SYSTEMS the side of a building.
(BWES):
               The following restrictions and regulations as set forth in this Title: front yard
BULK           regulations, rear yard regulations, side yard regulations, height restrictions,
REGULATIONS:   daylight plane height restrictions, floor area ratio regulations, impervious
               surface coverage regulations, and building coverage regulations.
               A cannabis cultivation center, craft grower, infusing organization, processing
CANNABIS       organization, dispensing organization, transporting organization or any other
BUSINESS       form or type of business classified as a "Cannabis Business Establishment" in the
ESTABLISHMENT: Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act of 2019 (P.A. 101-0027), as the same may
               be amended from time to time.
COMMERCIAL     Any place where admission, services, performances, or products are provided for
ESTABLISHMENT: or upon payment of any form of consideration.
               For the purposes of Chapter 17 of this Title , land (including, without
               limitation, a combination of land and water) within a planned residential
               development that benefits the development as a whole rather than a specific
               occupant. Examples of common open space include, without limitation: recreational
COMMON OPEN    and open spaces such as parklets, greens, and improved or natural trails;
SPACE:         preserved environmental areas such as tree stands and savannahs; and hydrologic
               features such as rivers, creeks, ponds, lakes, wetlands, and swales. Common open
               space is generally unoccupied by buildings or structures with certain exceptions
               described in the planned residential development regulations. Land used for
               streets, rights of way, and parking areas is not common open space.
               Any use of a dwelling unit for the habitation by persons, whether adults or
               minors, who do not constitute a family and who are suffering from a handicap, as
               defined in, or judicially construed to be covered by, the United States fair
               housing act, 42 USC section 3602(h)(1), as the same has been, and may from time
COMMUNITY      to time hereafter be, amended, or from a disability or impairment that the Board
RESIDENCE:     of Trustees determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, is similar to, but
               does not fall within said definition of, a handicap, together with caregivers and
               staff. The following are specifically excluded from this definition: living
               arrangements that serve as an alternative to incarceration; hospitals and
               clinics; boarding houses; convalescent homes; homes for the aged; orphanages; and
               similar facilities.
               A structure with a fixed roof, located along the facade and external to the
COVERED        principal portion of a building at approximately the level of the first floor,
OUTDOOR PORCH: that provides access to the building. A "covered outdoor porch" may be enclosed
               on one or more sides by glass, screens, walls, railings, or some other retaining
               device.
CULTURAL OR    For the purposes of Chapter 17 of this Title, an establishment that is open to
COMMUNITY      the public and provides cultural services and facilities including, but not
FACILITY:      limited to cultural centers, historical societies, and libraries operated by a
               public, private or non-profit organization.
               An exterior floor system supported in any manner and at any height above grade;
DECK:          provided, however, that patios, concrete slabs, and other improved surfaces at
               grade are not considered by this Title to be "decks".
DOG RUN:       A fenced area used principally for the confinement or exercise of a domestic
               animal.
               A structure or a part of a structure intended for use by one family or group
DWELLING UNIT: family household, and which includes cooking space and lawful sanitary facilities
               reserved for the occupants thereof.
EXPANDED       Any window well with a clear offset distance from the outside foundation wall of
WINDOW WELL:   more than 36 inches or a cross sectional area of more than 12 square feet.
               One person or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption or
               guardianship (but not including guardianship by any governmental or quasi-
               governmental agency), or not more than four persons not so related, at least one
FAMILY:        of whom is an adult resident who is domiciled in the dwelling unit and is capable
               of, and in fact is, functioning as the head of the household, together with
               domestic servants and temporary gratuitous guests, living together as a single
               housekeeping unit.
               An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire, metal, or
FENCE:         other manufactured material or combination of materials erected to protect,
               confine, or screen areas.
FENCE, BARBED  One or more strands of wire or other material having intermittent sharp points of
WIRE:          wire or metal that may puncture, cut, tear, or snag persons, clothing, or
               animals.
FENCE,         A fence made entirely of wire woven in squares of approximately one and one-half
CHAINLINK:     inches with vertical supports not less than one and one-half inches in diameter.
               The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of all buildings and/or
               structures on a lot, measured in square feet from the exterior face of exterior
               walls of each such building or structure. The gross floor area of a lot shall
               also include the sum of the following:
               A.   Accessory building floor space.
               B.   Atria.
               C.   Balconies, interior.
               D.    Bay overhangs.
               E.    Courtyards, interior and exterior.
               F.   Chimneys and fireplaces.
               G.    Elevator shafts at each floor.
               H.    Mezzanines.
FLOOR AREA,    I.    Garages and parking structures.
GROSS:         J.    Shafts used for mechanical, electrical, and plumbing equipment.
               K.    Stairwells at each floor.
                  For residential uses, not including mixed-use developments, "gross floor area"
               further includes the following areas, subject to the calculation (if any)
               provided in subsection
               10-5-6.B:
               L.   Attic floors.
               M.   Balconies, exterior.
               N.   Underground structures.
               O.   Space in excess of 10 feet in height.
               P.   Undereaves.
               Q.   Porches, and steps leading thereto.
               R.   Stoops and steps leading thereto.
               S.   Decks, and steps leading thereto.
               Generally, the boundary of a lot along a street or public right- of-way. For a
FRONT OR FRONT corner lot, the front is the shorter boundary along a street or a public right-
LINE:          of-way. For irregular lots, the Building Commissioner shall determine the front
               line(s) of the lot and applicable setbacks.
GRADE:         The preconstruction level of ground surface.
GROUND MOUNTED A solar energy system that is accessory to a principal use and consists of
SOLAR ENERGY   permanently installed freestanding solar collector(s) that are placed on or
SYSTEM:        mounted to the ground.
               A room, the entire floor of which is on or above the normal surface of the lot
               adjacent to the dwelling in which such room is located and which may be occupied
               by one or more persons for eating, living or sleeping, including kitchens and
HABITABLE      recreation rooms, closets, bathrooms, water closet compartments, serving and
ROOM:          storage pantries, and corridors, but not including laundries, cellars, basements,
               utility and furnace rooms, garages, carports, porches, breezeways, or spaces that
               are not used frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
               purposes.
               The vertical distance measured from the highest point of a building to the grade
               directly below such highest point, provided that the following shall be excluded
               when determining building height:
               A.   Chimneys with cross-sectional areas less than 32 square feet.
               B.   Cooling towers.
               C.   Decorative railings.
               D.   Elevator bulkheads.
               E.   Fire towers.
HEIGHT,        F.   Monuments.
BUILDING:      G.   Parapet walls.
               H.   Stacks.
               I.   Stage towers.
               J.   Scenery lifts.
               K.   Tanks.
               L.   Water towers.
               M.   Ornamental towers and spires.
               N.   Wireless towers.
               O.   Other necessary mechanical appurtenances.
HOT TUB OR     A receptacle for water located entirely above ground and having a volume of less
SPA:           than 425 gallons, a surface area of no more than 150 square feet, and a depth of
               no more than 36 inches, but not including a swimming pool.
               Any building or portion thereof containing six or more guest rooms used for
HOTEL:         overnight accommodation that are available for rent by transient guests. The word
               "hotel" shall include, without limitation, inns, motels, and suites, but shall
               not include short-term rentals as defined in this section.
               Any improvement on a lot that prohibits or substantially retards the drainage of
               stormwater directly into the soil, including, without limitation, buildings,
IMPERVIOUS     accessory structures, walks of a minimum two foot width made of concrete, wood,
SURFACE:       or continuous brick or other impervious material, patios, decks, porches, stoops,
               steps, and other similar structures, swimming pools, tennis and other game
               courts, pavements of any kind, and paved, brick, or gravel driveways.
JOINT PLAN
COMMISSION AND The Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals created pursuant to Section
ZONING BOARD   2-5-1 of this Code.
OF APPEALS OR
PCZBA:
               A.   Generally: The person, corporation, or other legal entity that has a fee
               interest in a property, as evidenced by the name that appears on the title
               records in the office of the Lake County Recorder or as otherwise determined by
               the Building Commissioner.
               B.   Contractual Interests: For purposes of submitting an application for zoning
               relief, all of the following parties shall additionally be deemed owners: The
               holder of an option or contract to purchase; a lessee having a remaining term of
               not less than 40 years; or other person having an enforceable proprietary
               interest in such land.
               C.   Notice to Owners: Where this Title requires mailings to an owner, the
               requirement is satisfied by mailing to the address on file with the Lake County
               Chief Assessor's office for the mailing of property tax statements.
               D.   Multiple Owners: When a property is in a land trust is subject to a long
LANDOWNER OR   term land lease, or when one or more persons, corporations, or other legal
OWNER:         entities have an ownership interest in a property (including beneficial interests
               and long term lessee interests), the rights afforded to, and obligations imposed
               on, owners in this Chapter apply and are exercised as if there were only one
               owner. The Village has no obligation to investigate or determine the legal
               relationship among multiple owners. It is sufficient for any one owner to act for
               and bind, the owners of the property (which includes, without limitation, the
               delivery and receipt of notice and the provision of written consent), unless the
               Building Commissioner receives, within the applicable time periods or any
               extended time periods as the Commission deems appropriate, clear and convincing
               evidence, as determined by the Building Commissioner, that such owner does not
               have the exclusive authority to act for, and bind, the owners of the property.
               Absent such a timely protest or objection, the Village may rely on
               representations made by any one owner with respect to the exercise of the rights
               and obligations set forth in the Zoning Regulations.
               See definitions of lot of record and lot, zoning. Unless the context indicates
LOT:           otherwise, all references in this Title to a "lot" shall be deemed to mean and
               refer to a "zoning lot".
LOT,           A lot that shares a common lot line with another lot either in whole or in part.
ADJOINING:
               A lot abutting upon two or more intersecting streets or street rights-of-way or a
               lot bounded on two sides by a curving street or street right-of-way, where it is
LOT, CORNER:   possible to draw two intersecting tangents, one each commencing at each of the
               two points of intersection of the lot lines and street lines, which intersect
               with each other to form an interior angle not exceeding 120 degrees. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 2 of this Title.
               The horizontal distance between the midpoint of the front lot line and the
LOT DEPTH:     midpoint of the rear lot line. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 3 of this Title.
               An irregularly shaped lot consisting of two (2) sections: a) the primary mass of
               the lot (the "flag" portion), that is set back from the street frontage access
               and is located behind one or more other lots; and b) a narrow access corridor
LOT, FLAG:     (the "pole" portion), that has a width of less than 50 feet wide and extends for
               a distance of at least 40 feet from the street or street right of way toward the
               flag portion of the lot. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 2A of this Title.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot bounded by a street or street right of way on only one side. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 2 of this Title.
               A lot that is either or both: (i) not generally rectilinear in shape, such that
               the lot does not have four sides, and the side lot lines are not within 45
               degrees of perpendicular to the front lot line or the tangent of a curved front
LOT,           lot line and remain generally straight throughout their length; or (ii) has
IRREGULAR:     access to a public street or public right-of-way only through a private street or
               across another lot. Lot width and required setback determinations for principal
               and accessory structures shall be determined based on the setback requirements
               for immediately adjacent lots at each location along the common lot line, unless
               otherwise clearly established pursuant to the provisions of this title.
LOT LINES:     The lines bounding a "lot", as defined in this section.
               A lot that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the
LOT OF RECORD: office of the county recorder of deeds, or a parcel of land separately described
               in a recorded instrument.
               A lot having its front and rear yards each abutting on a street or street right
LOT, THROUGH:  of way. Both such yards are considered both front and rear yards and, where in
               conflict, the most restrictive setback provision shall control. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 2 of this Title.
               The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot, measured parallel to
               the front lot line(s) at the required front setback line(s). See section
               10-13-1, illustration 3 of this title. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
               herein, the following rules apply except when evaluating a minimum lot width or
               lot frontage requirement:
LOT WIDTH:     A.   For flag lots, the lot width shall be measured from the flag portion of the
               lot immediately adjacent to the narrow "pole" section of the lot. See Section
               10-13-1, illustration 2a.
               B.   For irregular lots with a lot line abutting Lake Michigan, the lot width
               shall be the greater of (i) the lot width provided above or (ii) the lot width
               measured between the lot lines as a straight north-south (0 degree bearing) line
               100 feet west of the most westerly point of abutment with Lake Michigan.
               A zoning lot is:
               A.   Composed of one or more lots of record;
               B.   Held under a single fee simple title, or otherwise in common ownership or
               control;
LOT, ZONING:   C.   Designated by its owner or developer at the time of filing for any approval
               under this title as a single zoning lot for the purposes of development; and
               D.   The site of no more than a single principal use and a single principal
               building (unless specifically authorized pursuant to the terms of this Title),
               each in their entirety, together with any accessory uses or buildings and such
               open spaces and yards as are to be used with such building or use.
MAJOR          A variation that does not constitute a Minor Variation.
VARIATION:
               A variation that approves (i) the reduction of a minimum bulk regulation by not
MINOR          more than 25 percent; or (ii) an increase in a maximum of bulk regulation by not
VARIATION:     more than 25 percent. Where there are pre-existing non-conforming conditions, the
               percentage increase or decrease shall be measured from the otherwise applicable
               bulk regulation, and not from the existing non-conforming condition.
               A self-supporting pole that consists of a single shaft which has either a solid
MONOPOLE:      or hollow core, and which is used as an antenna support structure, but which has
               neither lattice framework nor external support devices such as guywires.
MULTIPLE-      A residential building containing two or more dwelling units. Notwithstanding
FAMILY         anything contained herein to the contrary, a single-family dwelling with an
DWELLING:      accessory dwelling unit shall not be considered a "multiple-family dwelling."
               For the purposes of the Planned Residential Development (PRD) regulations, a
MULTIPLE-UNIT  building designed and constructed with multiple individual dwelling units that
DWELLING:      are accessed from the outdoors via a common entry. A multiple-unit dwelling does
               not include a two-family dwelling.
NONCONFORMING  A zoning lot that does not comply with the applicable minimum lot area, lot
LOT:           width, and lot front requirements for any permitted use for the district in which
               such zoning lot is located.
               Any building or structure lawfully existing on February 15, 1994, or any
NONCONFORMING  amendment hereto, that does not comply with all of the regulations of this Title,
STRUCTURE:     or any such amendment hereto, governing bulk regulations for the zoning district
               in which such building or structure is located.
               Any use lawfully being made of any land, building, or structure on February 15,
NONCONFORMING  1994, or any amendment hereto, that does not comply with all of the regulations
USE:           of this Title, or any such amendment hereto, governing use for the zoning
               district in which such land, building, or structure is located.
               A state of dress or undress that exposes to view:
               A.    Human genitals; pubic region; anus; or female breast below a point
NUDE OR STATE  immediately above the top of the areola, but not including any portion of the
OF NUDITY:     cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard,
               bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed; or
               B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, or any device or covering
               that, when worn, simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
PCZBA:         The Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals created by Section
               2-5-1 of This Code.
PERSONAL       Commercial mobile telecommunications services, unlicensed wireless
WIRELESS       telecommunications services, and common carrier wireless telecommunications
SERVICES:      exchange access services.
PERSONAL       An antenna used in connection with the provision of personal wireless services,
WIRELESS       including, without limitation, directional or "panel" antennas and
SERVICES       omnidirectional or "whip" antennas.
ANTENNA:
PERSONAL
WIRELESS       Equipment, accessory buildings, and other instruments, appurtenances, and
SERVICES       facilities associated with the operation of a personal wireless services antenna.
FACILITIES:
PLANNED
COMMERCIAL     A tract of land which is developed in conformity with chapter 14 of this Title.
DEVELOPMENT OR
PCD:
PLANNED MIXED-
USE            A tract of land which is developed in conformity with chapter 15 of this Title.
DEVELOPMENT OR
PMD:
PLANNED
RESIDENTIAL    A tract of land which is developed by a landowner in conformity with Chapter 17
DEVELOPMENT OR of this Title.
PRD:
PRINCIPAL      A structure or building on a lot intended to be utilized for a principal use and
STRUCTURE OR   to which any other structure on such lot must be accessory.
BUILDING:
               The use of a lot, whether a permitted or special use, implicitly or explicitly
PRINCIPAL USE: designated by the owner of such lot as the lot's primary or main use and to which
               any other use on such lot must be accessory.
               A.   A temporary sale at a residence of personal property from that residence and
               neighboring residences, including a house sale, garage sale, rummage sale, yard
               sale, moving sale, auction, estate sale, or other similar event, or
PRIVATE SALE:  B.   A temporary sale of personal property conducted on the premises of a
               nonprofit institution for the benefit of that institution, including a rummage
               sale, auction, or other similar event. Private sales do not include any sales of
               personal property conducted by or on behalf of any commercial establishment or
               for profit entity.
               A.   A church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship.
               B.    A public or private nursery, elementary, or secondary school.
               C.   A childcare facility, licensed by the Illinois Department of Children and
               Family Services.
PROTECTED      D.    A public park, playground, playing field, forest preserve, or other public
USES:          recreational facility.
               E.    A public or private cemetery.
               F.   A public housing facility.
               G.   A commercial retail establishment, including establishments licensed to sell
               or distribute alcoholic beverages.
               Any natural land area with a steep sided, wooded valley typically with continual
               or intermittent running water at its base, that has a drop in elevation from the
               top ravine edge equal to or greater than two feet vertical for every 10 feet
               horizontal, and that is identified on the maps in section
               10-13-1, illustrations 14A through 14E of this Title. A "ravine" shall not
               include:
               A.   Mere depressions, gullies, or streams that do not have adjacent, larger,
RAVINE:        wooded steep sided areas;
               B.    The upper reaches or secondary reaches of a steep sided, wooded valley that
               has been extensively filled or extensively graded prior to March 9, 1999, being
               the effective date of this definition and chapter 12 of this Title; or
               C.    The extreme upper reaches or secondary reaches of a steep sided, wooded
               valley that is less than 150 feet in length and that is isolated from all primary
               ravine areas as a result of manmade improvements such as roads or other
               structures.
RAVINE         The area of a ravine, plus the area of the bluff/ravine property that lies
PROTECTION     between the top ravine edge and the required setback established pursuant to
AREA:          subsection
               10-12-3A of this Title.
               A building all or part of which contains one or more dwelling units, including
RESIDENTIAL    single-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings but excluding hostelries,
BUILDING:      house trailers, lodging houses, dormitories, sororities and fraternities, nurses
               residences, sanatoriums, nursing homes and convalescent homes.
               Any lot or other tract of land zoned or designated in any of the following
               districts, zones, or developments:
                  Country Estate Residence District (C-E)
                  Estate Residence District (E-1)
                  A-A-A-A Residence District (E-2)
RESIDENTIAL       A-A-A Residence District (R-1)
PROPERTY:         A-A Residence District (R-2)
                  A Residence District (R-3)
                  B Residence District (R-4)
                  C Residence District (R-5)
                  D Residence District (R-6)
                  Planned Residential Development (PRD)
               A woven material typically installed in doors, windows, outdoor porches, and
SCREEN:        gazebos, constructed of metal wire of an approximate size of 18 inches by 16
               inches, or fiberglass filament of a similar size, and designed to allow the
               passage of air while keeping out insects.
SELF-CONTAINED A professionally manufactured device that utilizes solar collector(s) to produce
SOLAR ENERGY   small amounts of energy for the sole purpose of operating the device. Examples
SYSTEM:        include, but are not limited to, portable lights, swimming pool heaters, aeration
               pumps and attic fans, and other portable devices.
               A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals,
SEMINUDE:      pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
               covered by supporting straps or devices or by other minor accessory apparel such
               as hats, gloves, and socks.
SETBACK:       The required minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and a building or
               structure.
               A dwelling unit containing five or fewer guest rooms used for overnight
               accommodation that are available for rent by transient guests for a period
SHORT-TERM     shorter than 30 consecutive days. The term "short-term rental" shall not include
RENTAL:        hotel as defined in this section. The term "short-term rental" shall not include
               the rental of a dwelling unit pursuant to a rental agreement executed in
               conjunction with a contract to sell the dwelling unit.
SINGLE-FAMILY  A residential property containing (i) one dwelling unit or (ii) one principal
DWELLING:      dwelling unit and one accessory dwelling unit.
SOLAR          A professionally manufactured device, structure or a part of a device or
COLLECTOR:     structure for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into
               thermal, mechanical or electrical energy.
SOLAR ENERGY   A system which utilizes solar collector(s) to convert solar energy into thermal,
SYSTEM:        mechanical or electrical energy for storage and use, including building mounted,
               building integrated, ground mounted, and self-contained systems.
               Any of the following:
               A.   Human genitals; pubic region; buttocks; anus; or female breast below a point
SPECIFIED      immediately above the top of the areola, but not including any portion of the
ANATOMICAL     cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard,
AREAS:         bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not exposed.
               B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, or any device or covering
               that, when worn, simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
               Any of the following:
               A.    Actual physical touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or
               female breasts.
SPECIFIED      B.    Actual physical sexual acts, normal or perverted, including intercourse,
SEXUAL         oral copulation, or sodomy.
ACTIVITIES:    C.    Actual masturbation.
               D.    Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or tumescence.
               E.    Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
               activities set forth in subsection A, B, C, or D of this definition.
STAIRS:        Interconnected treads constructed above grade and typically supported by piers
               and a framework system and typically utilizing handrails.
STEPS AT       Non-interconnected treads at grade typically consisting of individual pieces of
GRADE:         stone, slate, timbers, or other similar material.
               An exterior floor typically, but not necessarily, constructed of concrete and/or
STOOP:         masonry, with a finished floor elevation at least six inches higher than the
               adjacent ground level, and utilized primarily as an access platform to a
               building.
               A public thoroughfare, avenue, road, highway, boulevard, parkway, way, drive,
STREET:        lane, or court that has been dedicated to the public that serves as the primary
               roadway to and egress from property abutting along its length.
               The division line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a contiguous public
STREET LINE:   street, including in such street, all property dedicated for street purposes or
               subject to public easements therefor.
               Anything constructed or erected above grade, the use of which requires permanent
               or temporary location on the ground, or anything attached to something having a
STRUCTURE:     permanent location on or in the ground. References to "structure" shall in all
               cases be deemed to refer to both structures and buildings. Patios, driveways, and
               walks at grade will generally not be considered to be "structures" under this
               Title.
               A garage accessory to a single-family residential use where:
               A.   The elevation of the garage floor at the location of the vehicle access door
SUBTERRANEAN   is two feet or more below the average of the adjacent preconstruction grades to
SINGLE-FAMILY  the sides of the vehicle access door, such as where a sloped driveway and
GARAGE:        retaining walls are used to access a vehicle storage area below grade; or
               B.   A lift or elevator is used to access a vehicle storage area below grade
               unless the lift or elevator is completely contained within a structure.
               A receptacle for water, or artificial basin of water, either aboveground,
               belowground, or partly aboveground and partly belowground, not wholly enclosed
SWIMMING POOL: within a building, having a depth at any point in excess of 18 inches or a
               surface area exceeding 150 square feet, and intended for use by persons for the
               purpose of immersion, partial immersion, or swimming and including all
               appurtenant equipment, but not including a hot tub or spa.
               The curvilinear line connecting the points of a bluff where the previously
               unimproved and undisturbed land surface first begins to drop in elevation at a
TOP BLUFF      rate equal to or greater than two feet vertical for every 10 feet horizontal.
EDGE:          Improvements or fill located in the area that would be considered the "top bluff
               edge" pursuant to this definition, as of March 9, 1999, being the effective date
               of this definition and chapter 12 of this Title, shall not be considered in
               determining the "top bluff edge".
               The curvilinear line connecting the points of a ravine where the previously
               unimproved and undisturbed land surface first begins to drop in elevation at a
               rate equal to or greater than two feet vertical for every 10 feet horizontal.
               Improvements or fill located in the area that would be considered the "top ravine
               edge" pursuant to this definition, as of March 9, 1999, being the effective date
               of this definition and chapter 12 of this Title, shall be considered in
               determining the "top ravine edge", using the applicable standards set forth
               below:
               A.   Decks And Similar Structures: The "top ravine edge" shall extend under any
               deck or similarly elevated structure and shall be deemed to be located pursuant
               to the otherwise applicable criteria set forth above.
               B.   At Grade Permanent Structures: The "top ravine edge" shall be at the
               exterior limit of any permanent at grade building foundation or other similar
TOP RAVINE     structure.
EDGE:          C.   Fill Or Graded Areas: The "top ravine edge" shall be at the exterior limit
               of a fill or extensively graded area.
               D.   Retaining Walls: The "top ravine edge" shall be at the exterior limit of any
               continuous retaining wall constructed of timber, concrete, stone, or other
               similar material, that functions as the top edge of the ravine and that serves as
               a border between the improved surface of the lot and the ravine, but excluding
               retaining walls of less than 20 feet in length.
               E.    Erosion Control Devices: Timbers, gabions, and other similar structures
               functioning solely as erosion control devices and not as a breakpoint at the top
               edge of a ravine shall not be considered in determining the location of the "top
               ravine edge" under this chapter.
               See section
               10-13-1, illustrations 15A and 15B of this Title, for guidance in determining the
               "top ravine edge" pursuant to this definition.
TOWER MOUNTED
WIND ENERGY    Freestanding, tower mounted wind energy systems.
SYSTEMS
(TMWES):
               For the purposes of Chapter 17 of this Title, a building designed and constructed
TOWNHOME:      with three or more individual dwellings units joined to other dwelling units at
               one or more sides by a party wall or walls, with each dwelling unit having a
               separate entrance from the outdoors.
               For the purposes of Title 17 of this Title, two individual dwellings units joined
TWO-FAMILY     to one another either by a party wall or walls (with each dwelling unit having a
DWELLING:      separate entrance) or with one dwelling above the other (usually sharing an
               entrance). Two-family dwellings are commonly known as a "duplex" or a "two flat."
UNDERGROUND    Any building or structure, or portion of a building or structure, including
STRUCTURE:     basements, walkout basements, crawl spaces, expanded window wells, and
               subterranean garages, with a floor located partially or wholly below grade.
               A wind energy production, conversion and distribution system consisting of a wind
WIND ENERGY    turbine, tower or other structure on which the turbine is mounted, and associated
SYSTEM (WES):  electronic, electric, or other mechanical equipment; provided, however, that such
               WES shall be limited to only building mounted wind energy systems.
               The open spaces (unoccupied except for accessory structures where permitted by
YARD:          this Title) between the lot line on all sides of a lot and the principal building
               located on such lot.
               An open space on the same lot with a building, between the building and the front
YARD, FRONT:   line of the lot, for the full width of the lot. For a through lot, the yards
               between both street lines are treated as both front and rear yards. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 1 of this Title.
               An open space (unoccupied except for accessory structures) on the same lot with a
               building, between the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot, for
YARD, REAR:    the full width of the lot. For a through lot, the yards between both street lines
               are treated as both front and rear yards. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 1 of this Title.
YARD,          See "Setback."
REQUIRED:
               An open space (unoccupied except for accessory structures) on the same lot with a
YARD, SIDE:    building between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the
               front yard to the rear yard. See section
               10-13-1, illustration 1 of this Title. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
 
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE A. ADVISORY AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES; BUILDING COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
10-2A-1: Purpose
10-2A-2: Village Board
10-2A-3: Joint Plan Commission And Board Of Appeals
10-2A-4: Architectural Board Of Review
10-2A-5: Building Commissioner
10-2A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Article is to set forth the specific powers of the
different parties responsible to review, approve, and administer applications
for approvals required pursuant to the Zoning Regulations; and to administer
the interpretation and enforcement of this Title. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2A-2: VILLAGE BOARD:
The Village Board has the following powers pursuant to the Zoning Regulations:
A.   To make final decisions on applications for amendments to the text of this
Title and the zoning map;
B.   To make final decisions on applications for special use permits;
C.   To make final decisions on applications for major variations;
D.   To hear appeals of the decisions of the PCZBA on minor variations;
E.   To make final decisions on applications for Level 3 (Major) design
reviews;
F.   To hear appeals of the decisions of the ABR on Level 2 design reviews;
G.   To hear appeals concerning administrative decisions and the final
decisions of the ABR on sign permits;
H.   To hear and make final decisions on applications for sign hardship
exemptions;
I.   To hear and make final decisions on zoning relief necessary to settle
litigation;
J.   To make final decisions on applications for planned residential
developments, planned commercial developments, and planned mixed-use
developments;
K.   To make final decisions on minor adjustments to a planned mixed-use
development;
L.   To make final decisions on applications for approval of development plans
in the Recreational, Institutional, and Open Space District;
M.   To refer any matter before it to an advisory board or commission for
further review, study, and recommendations concerning any zoning matters; and
N.   To exercise any other power permitted by and consistent with the authority
granted to the Board of Trustees pursuant to this Title and other Titles of the
Village Code, statutes, ordinances, and the Village's home rule powers. (Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2A-3: JOINT PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
The Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals has the following powers
pursuant to the Zoning Regulations:
A.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for amendments to the
text of this Title and the zoning map;
B.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for special use permits;
C.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for major variations;
D.   To make final decisions on minor variations;
E.   To hear appeals concerning the administrative decisions of the Building
Commissioner and Village staff pursuant to the Zoning Regulations and the
Illinois Municipal Code unless specified otherwise, including, without
limitation, the issuance of building permits denied for not being consistent
with the Zoning Regulations and use interpretations;
F.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for planned residential
developments, planned commercial developments, and planned mixed-use
developments;
G.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for approval and
modifications to Recreational, Institutional, and Open Space District
development plans;
H.   To review, study, and make recommendations to the Village Board concerning
any zoning matters referred to it by the Village Board; and
I.   To exercise any other power permitted by and consistent with the authority
granted to the PCZBA pursuant to this Title and other Titles of the Village
Code, statutes, ordinances, and the Village's home rule powers. (Ord. 2022-38,
12-12-2022)
10-2A-4: ARCHITECTURAL BOARD OF REVIEW:
The Architectural Board of Review has the following powers pursuant to the
Zoning Regulations:
A.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for Level 3 (Major)
design reviews;
B.   To hear and make final decisions on applications for Level 2 design
reviews;
C.   To hear and make final decisions on applications for sign permits not
subject to administrative decisions;
D.   To hear and issue recommendations on applications for sign hardship
exemptions; and
E.   To exercise any other power permitted by and consistent with the authority
granted to the Architectural Review Board pursuant to this Title and other
Titles of the Village Code, statutes, ordinances, and the Village's home rule
powers. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2A-5: BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
The Building Commissioner has the following powers pursuant to the Zoning
Regulations:
A.   To make final decisions on minor changes to special use permits;
B.   To make final decisions on applications for Level 1 (Minor) design
reviews;
C.   To make final decisions on applications for electrical sign permits;
D.   To make final decisions on applications for certificates of occupancy;
E.   To issue interpretations, including use interpretations, of the Zoning
Regulations;
F.   To make final decisions on minor adjustments to a planned commercial
development;
G.   To receive, review, and forward applications for development reviews under
the Zoning Regulations to the appropriate reviewing bodies;
H.   To conduct inspections of structures and uses of land and structures to
determine compliance with the Zoning Regulations;
I.   To enforce the Zoning Regulations as provided in Article 2D of Chapter 2
of this Title, and as using such powers as are otherwise available pursuant to
state statute and the Village's home rule authority; and
J.   To exercise any other power permitted by and consistent with the authority
granted to the Building Commissioner pursuant to this Title and other Titles of
the Village Code, statutes, ordinances, and the Village's home rule powers.
(Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2B-1: Purpose And Applicability
10-2B-2: Applications
10-2B-3: Cost Recovery Fees
10-2B-4: Public Notice
10-2B-5: Public Hearings
10-2B-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
The purpose of this Article is to provide for the general procedures common to
the various applications, reviews, and approvals provided in the Zoning
Regulations. Where other Sections of the Zoning Regulations are silent or are
not in conflict with the provisions of this Article, the provisions of this
Article shall control. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2B-2: APPLICATIONS:
A.   Form: Applications must be made in a form and provided in a number
determined by the Building Commissioner.
B.   Submission Deadline: The Building Commissioner shall set reasonable
submission deadlines for the various application types contemplated by the
Zoning Regulations so as to provide adequate time for public notice and staff
review.
C.   Application Fees: Each application for any action requested under the
Zoning Regulations shall be accompanied by the fees set out in Section
1-12-3 of this Code, which shall be reasonable reimbursement for the Village's
cost and expenses in administering the application and any requested action.
Every such fee shall be payable in full upon the submission of an application
whether or not the requested relief is ultimately granted.
D.   Payment of Fees Required: The owner of the property that is the subject of
the application, and if different, the applicant, shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of all application fees. The failure to pay
any fee or balance due, including any cost recovery fees required by Section
10-2B-3 of this Title, is grounds to:
1.   Cease processing or refuse to process, any application;
2.   Deny, revoke, or repeal any permit or approval;
3.   File and foreclose a lien on the subject property in the amount of the
fees due as well as the costs of collection, no sooner than 30 days following
the mailing of a written demand for payment at the address shown on the
application. By signing the application, the owner shall be deemed to have
agreed to pay such fees and to consent to the filing and foreclosure of a lien,
which may be foreclosed in the manner provided by statute for mortgages or
mechanics' liens; and,
4.   Toll (e.g. pause) any time period provided by the Zoning Regulations that,
when elapsed, would result in an automatic approval or an automatic
recommendation of approval.
E.   Waiver of Fees for Certain Public And Charitable Bodies: Some or all fees
payable under the Zoning Regulations, including cost recovery fees, may be
waived by or pursuant to policy established by the Village Board of Trustees
for any application filed by: (i) any public body; (ii) any agency deriving the
majority of its revenues from taxes levied within the Village; or (iii) any
charitable or eleemosynary organization.
F.   Payment of Taxes and Fines Required: No application for any action
requested under the Zoning Regulations shall be processed unless all taxes,
special assessments, fees and fines, and other governmental levies against the
subject property or any part thereof that are due have been paid in full or are
subject a pending appeal.
G.   Successive Applications Prohibited:
1.   No application for action requested under the Zoning Regulations shall be
resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of such denial of an
application, either in whole or in part, except upon except on the grounds of
substantial new evidence or proof of changed conditions.
2.   If the application is resubmitted earlier than one year from the date of
denial, either in whole or in part, such subsequent application must include a
detailed statement of the grounds justifying its consideration.
3.   The Building Commissioner will make a determination as to whether the
subsequent application is appropriate for resubmittal prior to the expiration
of the one year wait requirement. If the Building Commissioner finds that there
are no grounds for consideration of the subsequent application, the Building
Commissioner shall summarily, and without hearing, deny the request.
H.   Minimum Contents of Application: Every application must include, at a
minimum, the following information, as well as any additional information
required in other applicable sections of the Zoning Regulations:
1.   The owner's name and address, and if submitted by someone other than the
owner, the applicant's name and address and the owner's signed consent to the
filing of the application;
2.   Except for applications filed by the Village, proof of ownership or
current contract to purchase or lease the subject property;
3.   The names and addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising
the applicant with respect to the application;
4.   The address, legal description, and property index number of the subject
property; and
5.   A plat of survey completed by a licensed surveyor accurately representing
the current site conditions, including any existing buildings; trees over three
inches in diameter; and walkways, driveways, patios, and other paved surfaces.
The Building Commissioner may, without hearing, deny any incomplete application
after providing the applicant a reasonable opportunity to correct any
deficiencies.
I.   Adjustments to Application Requirements:
1.   Waiver of Requirements: Notwithstanding any other Section of the Zoning
Regulations, the Building Commissioner may modify or waive any application
requirement that is unnecessary for the consideration of a request, even where
"shall" or "must" is used to describe a requirement.
2.   Additional Information: The Building Commissioner and any reviewing body
may request that the applicant provide additional information beyond the
minimum information required where necessary to evaluate an application.
3.   Submission of Technical Studies: As a specific type of additional
information to be requested of the applicant, the Building Commissioner may
require the submission of technical studies necessary to evaluate the
application. Such studies may concern subjects such as traffic, stormwater,
engineering, hydrology, environmental impact, noise, marketability, or
financial impact. The Building Commissioner may seek such studies from the
applicant or from the Village's own technical consultants. In either case, the
cost of all studies shall be borne by the applicant. The Building
Commissioner's decision to require a study may be appealed as provided in
Section
10-2C-7 of this Title.
J.   Withdrawal of Application: An applicant has the right to withdraw an
application at any time prior to the decision on the application by a deciding
body, including the ability to withdraw the application if it has been tabled
by any deciding or reviewing body prior to a final decision. Requests for
withdrawal must be made in writing by the applicant. There will be no refund of
fees and the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the Village for its
fees and costs incurred by the Village up to the time the application is
withdrawn that may become due and payable pursuant to Section
10-2B-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2B-3: COST RECOVERY FEES:
A.   Fee Established: Every application filed and processed pursuant to this
Title that requires the Village to incur third party costs or expenses,
including, without limitation, legal fees incurred for the Village Attorney or
any attorney or firm retained by the Village, shall be subject to the cost
recovery fee and escrow provisions set forth in this Section. The cost recovery
fee shall in addition to any and all other filing fees and other charges
established pursuant to this Code. For purposes of this Section, the word
"application" shall be deemed to include and refer to any and all petitions and
applications filed or processed pursuant to this Title.
B.   Responsibility for Payment: The owner of the property that is the subject
of the application and, if different, the applicant, shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of the cost recovery fee, and for the
establishment of the cost recovery escrow. By signing the application, the
owner or applicant shall be deemed to have agreed to pay, and to have consented
to, the cost recovery fee, plus any costs of collection, that have not been
paid within 30 days following the mailing of a written demand for payment to
the applicant at the address set forth on the application, including any
additional cost recovery fees assessed under subsection
10-2B-3.D.3. Any lien filed pursuant to this subsection may be foreclosed in
the manner provided for mortgages or mechanics liens under Illinois law.
C.   Recoverable Costs: For purposes of calculating the cost recovery fee, the
costs incurred by the Village with respect to the following items shall be
deemed to be the "actual costs" incurred by the Village in processing an
application shall include the costs for:
1.   Publication and mailing of notices;
2.   A court reporter;
3.   Professional and technical consultant services (including, without
limitation, landscape and other design review);
4.   The Village Attorney, or other Village retained attorney or law firm,
consultation, meeting attendance, document preparation, and review;
5.   Making copies of the application and any other records used to process or
consider an application; and
6.   Document recordation.
D.   Cost Recovery Fee Payment and Cost Recovery Escrow.
1.   Initial Payment and Cost Recovery Escrow: Every application shall be
accompanied by the required application fee plus an advance estimate of the
cost recovery fee, to be deposited in the cost recovery escrow account
established by the Village. The advance estimate shall be in an amount
established and adjusted from time to time by administrative order of the
Village Administrator. No interest shall be payable to the applicant on any
funds retained in such escrow account.
2.   Charges Against Cost Recovery Escrow: From the date of filing of any
application, the Village shall maintain an accurate record of the actual costs
of processing the application. The Village Administrator or the Village
Administrator's designee shall, from time to time, draw funds from the cost
recovery escrow account established for the application to pay such actual
costs and shall transfer the funds to the appropriate Village accounts. The
Village Administrator or the Village Administrator's designee shall maintain an
accurate record of all the drawings from the cost recovery escrow account.
3.   Additional Cost Recovery Escrow Deposits: Should the Village Administrator
or the Village Administrator's designee at any time determine that the cost
recovery escrow account established in connection with any application is, or
likely to become, insufficient to pay the actual costs of processing the
application, the Village Administrator or the Village Administrator's designee
shall provide notice of the insufficiency to the owner or applicant and demand
an additional deposit in an amount deemed by the Village Administrator or the
Village Administrator's designee to be sufficient to cover current and
foreseeable additional costs. If the additional deposit is not provided to the
Village Administrator or the Village Administrator's designee within 30 days of
the mailing of notice and demand to the owner or applicant, Village
Administrator or the Village Administrator's designee may direct that
processing of the application be suspended or terminated.
4.   Final Settlement: As soon as reasonably feasible following final action on
an application, the Village Administrator or the Village Administrator's
designee shall cause a final accounting to be made of the cost recovery escrow
deposits made in connection with the application and of the actual cost of
processing the application and shall make a final charge of the actual costs
against the cost recovery escrow deposits. A copy of the accounting shall be
provided to the owner and the applicant.
5.   Insufficient Amounts; Reimbursement: If the amount in the cost recovery
escrow account is insufficient to pay the total actual costs, a written demand
for payment of the balance due shall be mailed to the owner and the applicant.
Any remaining funds in the cost recovery escrow account after payment of the
total actual costs due pursuant to this Section shall be returned to the owner
or applicant, as applicable.
E.   Condition of All Applications, Approvals, and Permits: No application
filed pursuant to this Title shall be considered complete unless and until all
fees and deposits due pursuant to this Section have been paid. Every approval
granted and every permit issued pursuant to this Title shall, whether or not
expressly so conditioned, be deemed to be conditioned upon payment of cost
recovery fees as required by this Section.
F.   Tolling of Time Periods: Where this Title provides that the passage of
time without decision or action shall be deemed an approval or a recommendation
for approval, time periods shall be tolled during any period of non-payment of
the cost recovery fees and deposits due pursuant to this Section, but shall
otherwise continue to run.
G.   Failure to Pay Cost Recovery Fees: The failure to pay in full when due any
cost recovery fee or deposit required under this Section shall be grounds for
refusing to process an application and for denying or revoking any permit, or
approval sought or issued with respect to the land or development to which the
unpaid cost recovery fee or deposit relates. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2B-4: PUBLIC NOTICE:
A.   Notice Requirements: Notice for the following types of zoning relief shall
be provide in the following manner and pursuant to the requirements of this
Section:
TABLE 10-2B-15(A)
PUBLIC NOTICE OF APPLICATIONS
        Type of Zoning Notice to Adjacent Mailed Notice to
Section Relief         Owners             Surrounding Owners Newspaper Notice
                                          (300 Feet)
         Type of Zoning    Notice to       Mailed Notice to
Section  Relief            Adjacent Owners Surrounding Owners Newspaper Notice
                                           (300 Feet)
10-2C-5  Text Amendments                                      Yes
10-2C-5  Map Amendments                    30-15 Days         Yes
         (Rezoning)
10-2C-10 Special Use                       30-15 Days         Yes
         Permits
10-2C-15 Variations                        30-15 Days         Yes
         (Major)
10-2C-15 Variations                        30-15 Days         Yes
         (Minor)
10-2C-20 Design Review                     30-7 Days
         (Level 3 / Major)
10-2C-20 Design Review                     30-7 Days
         (Level 2)
         Design Review
10-2C-20 (Level 1 /        Yes
         Administrative)
10-2C-25 Use                               Upon issuance of
         Interpretations                   use interpretation
         Appeals of
10-2C-30 Administrative
         Decisions
10-2C-35 Certificate of
         Occupancy
10-2C-40 Sign Permits
         (Electrical)
10-2C-40 Sign Permits
         (Administrative )
10-2C-40 Sign Permits (All
         Other)
10-2C-40 Sign Hardship     Yes
         Exemptions
         Planned
10-2C-45 Residential                       30-15 Days         Yes
         Developments
         Planned
10-2C-45 Commercial                        30-15 Days         Yes
         Developments
10-2C-45 Planned Mixed-Use                 30-15 Days         Yes
         Developments
10-2C-50 RIO Development                   30-15 Days         Yes
         Plan Review
10-2C-55 Settlement of                     30-15 Days         Yes
         Litigation
 
B.   Contents of Notice: Every notice must include, at a minimum:
1.   The date, time, and place of the hearing or meeting;
2.   The name of the applicant;
3.   If the application concerns a specific property, the address, assigned
property index number, or legal description of the property;
4.   The types of action or relief sought by the applicant.
C.   Notice to Adjacent Owners: Where required by this Section, the Village
will provide service of notice by first class mail or by personal delivery to
owners abutting the subject property. Notice shall be postmarked or personally
delivered no less than 10 days prior to the scheduled meeting or hearing date.
D.   Mailed Notice to Surrounding Owners: Where required by this Section, the
Village will send notice to the owners of all properties located partially or
completely within 300 feet from the property line of the subject property,
which 300 feet shall include any streets, alleys, and rights-of-way. Notice
shall be by first class mail postmarked within the number of days specified in
Subsection A of this Section, inclusive, in advance of the scheduled hearing or
meeting date.
E.   Newspaper Notice: Where required by this Section, the Village will publish
notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the Village no less than 15
days, nor more than 30 days, in advance of the scheduled hearing or meeting
date.
F.   Additional Notice: The Building Commissioner may cause additional forms of
notice to be provided to the public so as to disseminate information or
encourage participation. The reasonable costs of doing so shall be at the
applicant's expense as provided in Section
10-2B-3. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2B-5: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
A.   Representation: All interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or
by an attorney, and be heard at the hearing held pursuant to an application.
B.   Submission of Testimony: All persons offering testimony at a public
hearing shall testify under oath, including the applicant, members of the
public, and any agents, attorneys, or experts. All persons wishing to testify
at the public hearing shall state for the record their name and shall be asked
to provide the place of residence. Written statements will be accepted prior to
the hearing to be entered into the public hearing record.
C.   Submission of Evidence: Any person may appear at a hearing and submit
evidence, upon receiving recognition from the Chair of the body conducting the
hearing.
D.   Redundant or Irrelevant Testimony: The Chair may use reasonable discretion
in determining when testimony has become redundant or is not relevant to the
proceedings.
E.   Continuances: The Chair, with approval of the body conducting the hearing,
may continue the public hearing. In order to reopen the hearing, no new notice
shall be required if a hearing is continued to a date specified, provided that
a public announcement of the future date, time, and place of the continued
hearing is made at the hearing and placed in the minutes. If the hearing is
adjourned, rather than continued to a date specified, in order to reopen the
hearing, all notices must be given that would have been required for the
initial public hearing. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
ARTICLE C. DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
SECTION:
10-2C-1: Purpose
10-2C-2: Text And Map Amendments
10-2C-3: Special Use Permits
10-2C-4: Variations
10-2C-5: Design Review
10-2C-6: Use Interpretations
10-2C-7: Appeals Of Administrative Decisions
10-2C-8: Certificates Of Occupancy
10-2C-9: Sign Permits And Exemptions
10-2C-10: Planned Developments
10-2C-11: RIO Development Plan Review
10-2C-12: Settlement Of Litigation
10-2C-13: Floor Area Bonuses For Landmarked Properties
10-2C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Article is to delineate the scope of applicability,
procedures, requirements, and approval standards that are applicable to each
zoning application and approval. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-2: TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS:
A.   Purpose: The regulations imposed and the districts created by the Zoning
Regulations may be amended from time to time in accordance with this Section.
The process for amending the text of the Zoning Regulations or the zoning map
to rezone certain land and territory, is intended to permit modifications in
response to changed conditions or changes in Village policy. Amendments are not
intended to relieve particular hardships or confer special privileges or rights
upon any person or party.
B.   Parties Entitled to Seek Amendments: The Board of Trustees, the PCZBA, and
the owner of any property to be affected by a proposed amendment may apply for
an amendment to the text of the Zoning Regulations or the zoning map to rezone
certain land and territory.
C.   Application: In addition to the general requirements of Article B of
Chapter 2 of this Title concerning applications, an applicant for a text or map
amendment must provide a written statement setting forth the purpose of the
request.
D.   Authority and Procedure:
1.   Notice and Public Hearing: Upon receipt by the Building Commissioner of a
complete application for an amendment that has been filed, the Building
Commissioner shall schedule the matter for hearing before the PCZBA. Not more
90 days after the filing of an application, a hearing shall be held on the
application unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
2.   Action by PCZBA: Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the PCZBA
shall make its recommendation to the Board of Trustees on the proposed
amendment, which recommendation shall be forwarded to the Board of Trustees
within 60 days after the close of the public hearing. The failure of the PCZBA
to provide a recommendation within such 60-day period, or such other time to
which the applicant may, in writing, agree, shall be deemed a recommendation
against the proposed amendment.
3.   Action by the Board of Trustees: Following the receipt of the
recommendation from the PCZBA, the Board of Trustees shall commence
consideration of the proposed amendment. To approve the proposed amendment,
with or without modifications, the Board must duly adopt an ordinance.
4.   Special Procedure for Frontage Protests: In the event a duly signed and
acknowledged protest against a proposed map amendment is filed with the Village
clerk before the adoption of such amendment by the owners of 20 percent or more
of the frontage to be affected by the proposed map amendment, or by the owners
of 20 percent or more of the frontage immediately adjoining or across
therefrom, or by the owners of 20 percent or more of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage to be affected, the proposed amendment shall not be
passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of all the Trustees then
holding office.
E.   Standard of Review: The decision to amend the text of the Zoning
Regulations or the Zoning Map to rezone certain land or territory is an
exercise of legislative discretion that is not controlled by any set standard.
In considering an application for an amendment the PCZBA and Board of Trustees
may consider, without limitation:
1.   For text and map amendments:
a.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the purposes of the Zoning
Regulations;
b.   The community need for the proposed amendment and any uses or development
it would allow;
c.   The impact of granting the proposed amendment on the public health, safety
and welfare; and
d.   The conformity of the proposed amendment with the Village's Comprehensive
Plan and Zoning Map, or the reasons justifying its lack of conformity.
2.   For map amendments:
a.   The existing uses and zoning of properties in the vicinity of the subject
property;
b.   Development trends in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.   The impact of the property's existing zoning on its value;
d.   The suitability of the subject property for uses permitted under its
current zoning, including the availability of adequate utilities and essential
public services;
e.   The impact of the proposed amendment on:
(1)   The use, enjoyment, value, and future orderly development of adjacent
properties;
(2)   Traffic in the vicinity of the subject property;
(3)   The adequacy of ingress to and egress from the subject property.
f.   The length of time, if any, that the subject property has been vacant,
considered in the context of the pace of development in the vicinity of the
subject property. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-3: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
A.   Purpose: There are certain uses authorized by the Zoning Regulations that,
because of their unique characteristics, should be subject to review of the
impact of those uses upon neighboring land and the community need for the
particular use at the particular location. Further, the imposition of
individualized conditions may be necessary to ensure that the use is
appropriate at a particular location. However, the review exercised by this
process is not intended to manage or interfere in commercial competition.
B.   Who May Apply: A special use permit application may be initiated only by
the owner of a subject property.
C.   Application: In addition to the general requirements in Article B of
Chapter 2 of this Title concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   A written statement setting forth the basis of the request and responsive
to the standards for reviewing special use permits; and
2.   If the proposed special use involves the construction, addition,
demolition, or external modification of any structure, then the application
must be accompanied by a site plan showing the proposed work and other site
features relevant to review of the proposed use.
D.   Authority and Procedure:
1.   Notice and Public Hearing: Upon receipt by the Building Commissioner of a
complete application for special use, the Building Commissioner shall schedule
the matter for hearing before the PCZBA. Not more 90 days after the filing of
an application, a hearing shall be held on the application, unless otherwise
agreed to by the applicant.
2.   Action by PCZBA: Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the PCZBA
shall make its recommendation to the Board of Trustees on the application for a
special use, which recommendation shall be forwarded to the Board of Trustees,
within 60 days after the close of the public hearing. The failure of the PCZBA
to provide a recommendation within such 60 day period, or such further time to
which the applicant may, in writing, agree, shall be deemed a recommendation
against the issuance of the special use.
3.   Action by the Board of Trustees: Following the receipt of the
recommendation from the PCZBA, the Board of Trustees shall commence
consideration of the application for a special use. To approve the application,
with or without modifications, the Board must duly adopt an ordinance.
E.   Standard of Review: No special use may be recommended for approval, or
approved, unless findings have been made to support each of the applicable
conclusions set forth below based upon the evidence presented at the public
hearing:
1.   General Standard: The proposed use will not have a substantial or undue
adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the area, or the public
health, safety, and general welfare;
2.   No Interference With Surrounding Development: The proposed use will be
constructed, arranged, and operated so as not to dominate the immediate
vicinity or to interfere with the use and development of neighboring property
in accordance with the applicable district regulations;
3.   Adequate Public Facilities: The proposed use will be served adequately by
essential public facilities and services such as streets, public utilities,
drainage structures, police and fire protection, refuse disposal, parks,
libraries, and schools, or the applicant shall provide adequately for such
services as a condition of being granted a special use permit under this
section;
4.   No Traffic Congestion: The proposed use will not cause undue traffic or
traffic congestion;
5.   No Destruction Of Significant Features: The proposed use will not result
in the destruction, loss, or damage of natural, scenic or historic features of
significant importance;
6.   Compliance With Standards: The proposed use will comply with all
additional standards imposed on it by the particular provision of this Title
authorizing such use; and
7.   Regulatory Purposes: The proposed use will be in harmony with the general
and specific purposes for which the Zoning Regulations and the regulations of
the district in question were enacted.
F.   Protective Conditions: The PCZBA may recommend, and the Board of Trustees
may require, conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location, and
operation of a special use as shall be deemed necessary to ensure compliance
with the Board of Trustee's findings and to satisfy the applicable standards
found in this Section. Conditions must have a rational nexus to the potential
impacts of the proposed special use, and must be roughly proportional, both in
nature and extent, to the impacts of the proposed special use.
G.   New Ownership: Provided the special use has not abandoned or discontinued,
any new owner or occupant of a property previously granted a special use may
continue the operation of an established special use provided that: (i) the
ordinance granting the special use did not prohibit or restrict the transfer of
the special use to a new owner or occupant; (ii) the new owner or occupant
complies with all conditions placed upon the special use; and (iii) the new
owner or occupant signs a transferee assumption agreement in a form approved by
the Village Board within 60 days of the commencement of ownership or occupancy,
pursuant to which the new owner or occupant agrees to comply with the Zoning
Regulations and any conditions set forth in the ordinance granting the special
use. Any failure to meet these requirements is a violation of this Title and
constitutes grounds for the revocation of the special use permit.
H.   Discontinuation of Special Use: A special use permit shall become null and
void if the special use for which the permit was granted ceases for more than
six consecutive months. For special uses that are seasonal in nature, such as
an outdoor swimming pool, the special use permit shall remain effective so long
as the use continues to operate each season.
I.   Administrative Approval of Minor Changes: Additions and expansion of an
existing special use are permitted only in accordance with the same procedures
and standards established under this section for new special uses. However,
minor changes in the site plan or design details of an approved special use
that are consistent with the standards and conditions applying to the special
use, such as the realignment of parking spaces and aisles, the relocation of a
driveway, or a change in the selection of building materials, may be approved
by the Building Commissioner without obtaining separate approval. Minor changes
may be approved by the issuance of a letter of interpretation where the
Building Commissioner states that the proposed changes comply with all
standards set forth in the Zoning Regulations and all conditions attached to
approval of the special use by the Village Board. The Building Commissioner, at
their discretion, may forward any request for such changes to the PCZBA and the
Village Board for full review and approval in accordance with the requirements
of this section, as if the request were for approval of a new special use. No
minor change approved by the Building Commissioner may violate any condition
imposed by the Village Board in an ordinance approving a special use. (Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-4: VARIATIONS:
A.   Purpose: The variation process is to provide a narrow and tailored means
to grant relief from unforeseen applications of the Zoning Regulations that
create practical difficulties or particular hardships.
B.   Variations from Zoning Regulations; Exceptions: An applicant may apply for
a variation from any provision of the Zoning Regulations except:
1.   Chapter 11 of the Zoning Regulations, concerning tree protection;
2.   This Section;
3.   The drainage plan approval requirements of Section
10-5-6, concerning maximum residential floor area; and
4.   Any regulation establishing permitted, accessory, prohibited, or special
uses applicable to any property in the Village, regardless of whether such
regulations are established by the Zoning Regulations, a planned development
ordinance, or a special use permit ordinance.
C.   Who May Apply: An application for a variation may be initiated only by the
owner of a subject property.
D.   Application: In addition to the general requirements of Article B of
Chapter 2 of this Title concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   A site plan showing the proposed work and other site features relevant to
review of the proposed relief. The site plan must be clearly annotated to show
the nature and magnitude of the requested relief;
2.   Plans, drawings, or specifications that reasonably illustrate the proposed
work; and
3.   For residential properties, calculations that show the status of the
current and proposed improvements of the property in regards to the bulk
regulations. The Building Commissioner may require the calculations to be
stamped by a licensed design professional in the State of Illinois.
E.   Authority and Procedure.
1.   Notice and Public Hearing: Upon receipt by the Building Commissioner of a
complete application for a variation, the Building Commissioner shall schedule
the matter for hearing before the PCZBA. Not more 90 days after the filing of
an application, a hearing shall be held on the application, unless otherwise
agreed to by the applicant.
2.   Action by the PCZBA:
a.   Major Variations: Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the
PCZBA shall make its recommendation to the Board of Trustees on the application
for a Major Variation, which recommendation shall be forwarded to the Board of
Trustees, within 60 days after the close of the public hearing. The failure of
the PCZBA to provide a recommendation within such 60 day period, or such
further time to which the applicant may, in writing, agree, shall be deemed a
recommendation against the issuance of the Major Variation.
b.   Minor Variations: Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the
PCZBA may, by a concurring vote of not less than four members of the PCZBA,
approve or deny applications for Minor Variations by written order.
c.   Multiple Types of Zoning Relief: Not withstanding anything to the contrary
in subsection
10-2C-4.E.2, if an application seeks multiple types of zoning relief that both
the PCZBA and the Village Board of Trustees would otherwise have final
authority to grant or deny, any relief that would otherwise within the
authority of the PCZBA to grant shall, such approval authority shall
automatically be transferred to the Board of Trustees and the PCZBA shall be a
recommending body.
3.   Action by the Board of Trustees: Following the receipt of the
recommendation from the PCZBA on applications for Major Variations or
applications for multiple types of zoning relief, the Board of Trustees shall
commence consideration of the application. To approve the application, with or
without modifications, the Board must duly adopt an ordinance.
4.   Special Procedure for Negative Recommendation: In the event that the PCZBA
recommends that a variation be denied, the favorable vote of two-thirds of all
of the Trustees of the Village then holding office shall be required to grant
the variation.
F.   Standard of Review: No variation may be recommended for approval, or
approved, unless findings have been made to support each of the following
conclusions based upon the evidence presented at the public hearing:
1.   Unique Physical Condition: The subject property or structure is
exceptional as compared to other lots and structures subject to the same
provision by reason of a unique physical condition, including: a) presence of
an existing use, structure, or sign, whether conforming or nonconforming; b)
irregular or substandard shape or size; c) exceptional topographical features;
or d) other extraordinary physical conditions peculiar to and inherent in the
subject property or structure that amount to more than a mere inconvenience to
the owner and that relate to or arise out of the lot or structure rather than
the personal situation of the current owner of the lot or structure.
2.   Not Merely Special Privilege: The alleged hardship or difficulty is not
merely the inability of the owner or occupant to enjoy some special privilege
or additional right not available to owners or occupants of other lots subject
to the same provision, nor merely an inability to make more money from the sale
of the subject property; provided, however, that where the standards herein set
out exist, the existence of an economic hardship shall not be a prerequisite to
the granting of an authorized variation.
3.   Regulatory Purposes: The variation would not result in a use or
development of the subject property that would not be in harmony with the
general and specific purposes for which the Zoning Regulations and the
provision from which a variation is sought were enacted.
4.   Public Health And Safety: The variation would not: a) impair an adequate
supply of light and air to adjacent property; b) increase the congestion in
public streets unreasonably, or increase parking requirements on public streets
unreasonably; c) increase the hazard of fire; d) endanger the public safety; e)
diminish or impair the value of property within the area surrounding the
subject property; or f) in any other respect impair the public health, safety,
comfort, morals, and welfare.
G.   Protective Conditions: Any recommending body may recommend, and any
approving body may require, conditions or restrictions upon the construction,
location, and operation of any development authorized by a variation as shall
be deemed necessary to ensure compliance with its findings and to satisfy the
applicable standards found in this Section. Conditions must have a rational
nexus to the potential impacts of the proposed variation, and must be roughly
proportional, both in nature and extent, to the impacts of the proposed
variation.
H.   Special Consideration for Historic Properties: If an applicant applies for
a variation for a property that contains, or a building that is, a Protected
Feature designated pursuant to the Village's Historic Preservation Regulations,
as codified in
Title 9, Chapter 14 of this Code, the Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals and Village Board shall consider the historical nature of the Protected
Feature as part of its review of an application for a variation in accordance
with standards set forth in Subsection 10-2C-15.F, provided that the historical
nature of the Protected Feature is relevant to the application for a variation.
(Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022; amd. Ord. 2023-6, 4-25-2023)
10-2C-5: DESIGN REVIEW:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of the design review process is to protect, preserve,
and enhance the natural and architectural environment of the Village, property
values, and to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the Village and its
residents.
B.   Regulated Activities: No person may engage in the following activities
without first obtaining design approval in accordance with the procedures of
this Section:
1.   Constructing, altering, enlarging, or remodeling the exterior appearance
of any building or structure (such as, without limitation, any wall, fence,
paved driveway, paved parking or loading area, sidewalk, sign, or light pole);
2.   Altering the access, circulation, or parking of vehicles, bicycles, or
pedestrians, such as by changing the number or designation of parking stalls or
the designated use or direction of access drives;
3.   Substantially changing outdoor lighting fixtures, such as by adding or
removing light fixtures or by increasing or decreasing the intensity, color
temperature, distribution pattern, or shielding of a light fixture. The
changing of light bulbs shall not constitute a substantial change to an outdoor
lighting fixture;
4.   Removing any landscape furniture, such as benches, waste receptacles, or
bicycle racks; and
5.   With respect to any site or use for which design approval has been
previously granted, doing anything materially different from or in addition to
what is shown, described, required and/or approved as part of the prior
approval, including any conditions of such design approval.
C.   Exempt Activities: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
10-2C-6.B, the following activities are exempt from this requirements of this
Section:
1.   Any activity wholly concerning a single-family residential use, provided
that this exemption does not apply to improvements that benefit a residential
development, such as, for example, common areas and amenities maintained by a
homeowners or condominium association;
2.   The painting or refinishing of existing surfaces to restore the previously
approved color;
3.   Changes to signage subject to review by the Architectural Board of Review
pursuant to Chapter 10 of the Zoning Regulations;
4.   The total demolition of the principal structure upon a site; or
5.   Emergency work as authorized (i) elsewhere in the Zoning Regulations or
(ii) in Title 9 of this Code. In the event that the Building Commissioner
permits emergency work that exempts a property owner or occupant from the
provisions of this Section, the Building Commissioner may condition its
approval of the emergency work on the owner's or occupant's compliance with
conditions related to the design of any improvements or alterations made during
such emergency work so as to preserve the purposes and protect the objectives
of the design review process while also providing flexibility due to the
exigent needs related to the emergency work.
D.   Who May Apply: An application for design approval may be initiated only by
the owner of a subject property.
E.   Application: In addition to the general requirements of Article B of
Chapter 2 of this Title concerning applications, the applicant must provide:
1.   A site plan for the subject property showing proposed building location
(s), land use areas, sidewalks, pedestrian walks, parking lot and walkway
lighting, signage, site amenities, the location of garbage and refuse
collection points, mail pick up points, and loading areas;
2.   A vehicle traffic and parking plan for the subject property detailing the
access locations, access geometry, on-site traffic circulation and parking
areas;
3.   Preliminary drawings for buildings to be constructed on the subject
property, including floor plans, exterior elevations and sections, and building
materials. A color, three-dimensional rendering where warranted by the
complexity of the design;
4.   Preliminary landscaping plans for the subject property, including site
grading, irrigation, and landscaping design; and
5.   For property in the CBD or R-5 Districts, streetscape elevation plans
showing elevations for the buildings and structures on the immediately adjacent
properties.
F.   Authority and Procedure:
1.   Types of Design Approvals: For purposes of this Section, the following
terms have the following meanings:
a.   Level 1 Design Approval (Administrative Review): The approval of a
regulated activity that, in the judgement of the Building Commissioner, consist
entirely of regulated activities that are either or both:
(1)   Not highly visible and will not have a significant impact on the
character or welfare of the surrounding area; or
(2)   Minor alterations to plans previously approved as Level 2 or Level 3
alterations, which do not substantially alter the appearance or function of the
approved design from that of the previous approval.
b.   Level 2 Design Approval: The approval of any regulated activity which is
not subject to Level 1 or Level 3 review.
c.   Level 3 Design Approval (Major): The approval of:
(1)   Construction of a new principal building;
(2)   Enlargement of an existing building or structure by 400 square feet or
more;
(3)   Any development or construction work that also requires other land use
approvals by the Village Board, such as the approval or amendments to a special
use permit, variation, or a planned development.
2.   Level 1 Design Approval: Upon receipt of a complete application for a
Level 1 Design Approval, the Building Commissioner shall approve the
application administratively if, in the sole judgment of the Building
Commissioner, the application:
a.   Qualifies for a Level 1 Design Approval pursuant to Section
10-2C-6.F.1 of this Code; and
b.   Satisfies the standards set forth in Section
10-2C-6.G of this Code.
3.   Level 2 Design Approval: Upon receipt by the Building Commissioner of a
complete application for a Level 2 Design Approval, the Building Commissioner
shall schedule the matter for a meeting before the Architectural Board of
Review, which meeting shall occur not more than 60 days after the filing of a
complete application, unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. The
Architectural Board of Review shall approve the application if the application
satisfies the standards set forth in Section
10-2C-6.G of this Code.
4.   Level 3 Design Approval:
a.   Action by the Architectural Board of Review: Upon receipt by the Building
Commissioner of a complete application for a Level 3 Design Approval, the
Building Commissioner shall schedule the matter for a meeting before the
Architectural Board of Review, which meeting shall occur not more than 60 days
after the filing of a complete application, unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant. The Architectural Board of Review shall make a recommendation to the
Board of Trustees on the application for a Level 3 Design Approval, which
recommendation shall be forwarded to the Board of Trustees, within 60 days
after the adoption of the recommendation. The failure of the Architectural
Board of Review to provide a recommendation within such 60 day period, or such
further time to which the applicant may, in writing, agree, shall be deemed a
recommendation against the approval of a Level 3 Design Approval.
b.   Action by the Board of Trustees: Following the receipt of the
recommendation from the Architectural Board of Review on applications for Level
3 Design Approvals, the Board of Trustees shall commence consideration of the
application and shall grant approval upon finding that the application
satisfies the standards set forth in Section
10-2C-6.G of this Code.
G.   Standard of Review: No application for design approval may be recommended
for approval, or approved, unless findings are made that the application
protects, preserves, and enhances the natural and architectural environment of
the Village, property values, and the health, safety, and welfare of the
Village and its residents. In evaluating whether this standard has been
satisfied, the following factors shall be considered:
1.   The quality of architectural design, including the quality and selection
of materials; the use of materials or design elements that are visually
compatible within the site and in comparison to the site's surroundings;
consistency of treatments throughout a design; and the avoidance of materials
or design elements that are duplicative or monotonous in comparison to their
surroundings;
2.   The design's compatibility with natural and man-made features in the
surrounding area, especially as to height, scale, and the protection of
features with significant natural, cultural, or historic value;
3.   The design's effect upon adjacent properties and benefit to the public
health, safety, and general welfare;
4.   The quantity, quality, utility, size and type of open spaces and landscape
improvements, including the provision of open spaces between a use and adjacent
uses and rights of way and the reasonable preservation of existing trees and
natural landscaping;
5.   The suitability of a project's provisions for convenient and safe
vehicular access, circulation, and parking;
6.   The suitability of a project's provisions for access and circulation by
bicyclists and pedestrians in a manner that is convenient, safe, and
integrative of adjacent public and private amenities for these users;
7.   The location and screening of a project's waste disposal areas, loading
areas, air-conditioning units, and other mechanical and service facilities; and
8.   Conformance with any additional criteria for design review located
elsewhere in this Title;
9.   Conformance with all requirements of this Code and other applicable laws.
H.   Protective Conditions: Any recommending body may recommend, and any
approving body or the Building Commissioner (if a Level 1 Design Approval) may
impose conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location, and
operation of any development authorized by design review as shall be deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with its findings and to satisfy the applicable
standards found in this Section. Conditions must have a rational nexus to the
potential impacts of the proposed design, and must be roughly proportional,
both in nature and extent, to the impacts of the proposed development. (Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-6: USE INTERPRETATIONS:
A.   Purpose: The interpretation authority established by this Section is
intended to recognize that the provisions of the Zoning Regulations, though
detailed and lengthy, cannot possibly address every specific use to which a
subject property may be used. Many such situations can, however, be readily
addressed by an interpretation of the specific provisions of the Zoning
Regulations in light of the general and specific purposes for which those
provisions have been enacted. Because the interpretation authority herein
established is an administrative rather than a legislative authority, it is not
intended to add to or change the essential content of the Zoning Regulations
but, rather, is intended only to allow authoritative application of that
content to specific cases.
B.   Uses of Property: No property in the Village may be used for any purpose
other than those than those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning
use table for the applicable zoning district except upon the issuance of a use
interpretation in accordance with the requirements of this Section. A use
interpretation may result in the treatment of an unlisted use as a permitted or
special use within a certain zoning district.
C.   Authority: The Building Commissioner may, subject to the procedures,
standards, and limitations of this Section, render use interpretations as to
whether a proposed use of a subject property is permitted under the Zoning
Regulations.
D.   Who May Apply: An application for a use interpretation may be initiated
only by the owner of a subject property.
E.   Application:
1.   All applications for an interpretation must be for the purpose of
furthering some actual development or use within the Village. No request for a
use interpretation will be accepted when it is only hypothetical in nature and
does not concern an actual proposal for a development or to use a property in a
particular manner.
2.   In addition to the general requirements of Article B of Chapter 2 of this
Title concerning applications, the application must state:
a.   The facts and circumstances that are the basis for the request for a use
interpretation; and
b.   The use or uses that are asserted by the applicant to include, or be the
most similar to, the proposed use.
F.   Procedure:
1.   Action By Building Commissioner:
a.   Prior to issuing an interpretation, the Building Commissioner may request
a conference with the applicant to discuss the request.
b.   The Building Commissioner must review the application and render an
interpretation within 30 days of receipt of a complete application.
c.   The Building Commissioner shall produce a written interpretation in
response to a request for interpretation that sets forth the facts, reasons,
analysis, and standards upon which the interpretation is based.
2.   PCZBA Notice of Decision: The Building Commissioner shall transmit a copy
of the interpretation to the Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals at or
prior to their next scheduled regular meeting as an informational report.
3.   Public Notice of Decision: The Building Commissioner shall cause mailed
notice to be delivered to property owners near the site of the proposed
development as described in Article B of Chapter 2 of this Title within seven
days of issuing the Building Commissioner's interpretation. The notice shall
state that the interpretation may be appealed to the Joint Plan Commission and
Zoning Board of Appeals.
4.   Appeal: Any aggrieved person may appeal the Building Commissioner's
interpretation issued pursuant to this Section to the Plan Commission and
Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant to Section
10-2C-6 within 30 days of the date that the Building Commissioner issues its
use interpretation. In calculating the time for an appeal concerning this
Section, the date that public notice was mailed shall be considered the date
the interpretation was issued.
G.   Standards for Use Interpretations:
1.   No use interpretation shall permit the establishment of any use that would
be inconsistent with the statement of purpose of the zoning district in
question.
2.   No use interpretation shall permit a use listed as a permitted or special
permit use in any other zoning district to be established where such use is not
so listed or such use is expressly prohibited.
3.   No use interpretation shall permit any use in a particular district unless
such use is substantially similar to other uses permitted in such zoning
district or, where a use will be treated as a special use, is substantially
similar to other special uses in such zoning district.
4.   The Building Commissioner may consider the following factors in
determining whether the proposed use is substantially similar to the permitted,
special, or prohibited uses in the subject zoning district:
a.   The description and general characteristics of the use;
b.   The intensity of the use;
c.   The amount of site or floor area and equipment devoted to the use;
d.   The presence of and amount of sales from the use;
e.   The customer type for the use, such as whether sales are to consumers,
businesses, or occur in-person or remotely;
f.   The number of employees involved in the use;
g.   The hours of operation of the use;
h.   The building and site arrangement for the use;
i.   The number and type of vehicles employed by the use;
j.   The number of vehicle trips generated by the use, including by employees,
customers, and deliveries;
k.   How the use is advertised or represented;
l.   Whether the use would be likely to be found independent of the other
activities on the site;
m.   Whether the use is subordinate to and serves another use in the
development;
n.   Whether a use is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building or use served;
o.   Whether the use contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants, customers, or employees of a principal use; and
p.   Any other relevant evidence. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-7: APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:
A.   Authority: The Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Building Commissioner or other Village
official in the administration or enforcement of the Zoning Regulations.
B.   Purpose: The appeal procedure is provided as a safeguard against
arbitrary, ill-considered, or erroneous administrative decisions. It is
intended to avoid the need for resort to legal action by establishing local
procedures to review and correct administrative errors. It is not, however,
intended as a means to subvert the clear purposes, meanings, or intents of this
Code or the rightful authority of the Building Commissioner to enforce the
requirements of this Code. To these ends, the reviewing body should give all
proper deference to the spirit and intent embodied in the language of this Code
and to the reasonable interpretations of that language by those charged with
the administration of this Code.
C.   Who May Apply; Time Limitation: Any person aggrieved by an order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Building Commissioner or other
Village official in the administration or enforcement of the Zoning Regulations
may seek an appeal under this Section within 30 days after the date of the
contested action. However, a person must first exhaust any ability provided in
this Code or under applicable statutes to seek a formal interpretation of the
Zoning Regulations before the person is eligible to file an appeal.
D.   Automatic Stay of Proceedings.
1.   Until a final decision regarding the contested action has been rendered,
the filing of the administrative appeal will stay any proceedings in
furtherance of the contested action and any development permitted by the
contested action.
2.   If the Building Commissioner certifies that the stay would cause imminent
peril to life or property, the proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Plan Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals or by the Circuit Court on application, upon reasonable written
notice to the Building Commissioner and on due cause shown.
E.   Application: An appeal must be filed in writing with the Building
Commissioner no later than 30 days after the contested action. In addition to
the general requirements of Article B of Chapter 2 of this Title concerning
applications, the appeal must state:
1.   The administrative decision from which the appeal is taken.
2.   The specific provisions of the Zoning Regulations claimed by the applicant
to be erroneously applied or interpreted.
3.   The specific reasons why the appealed application or interpretation of the
Zoning Regulations is erroneous.
4.   The specific relief sought by the applicant.
F.   Procedure:
1.   Scheduling and Notice: The appeal will be considered at a regular or
special meeting of the Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals. The
Building Commissioner shall provide the owner of the subject property and any
other party to the appeal with written notice of the date, time, and place of
the meeting in advance of the schedule meeting.
2.   Action by Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals ("PCZBA"):
a.   The PCZBA shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with Article B of
Chapter 2 of this Title and, within 30 days following its close, shall render a
decision. The failure of the PCZBA to act within this 30 day time period, or
within such further time as the applicant may agree, shall be deemed a decision
denying the appeal.
b.   The PCZBA will, by written findings, reverse, affirm, or modify the
contested administrative action or decision. Any vote to reverse, affirm, or
modify shall require a majority vote of all members appointed to the PCZBA,
whether or not they are present. In reversing, affirming, or modifying the
contested action, the PCZBA has all related powers of the Building
Commissioner.
c.   The contested action or decision may not be modified unless the PCZBA
finds by clear and convincing evidence that the Building Commissioner has made
an error in the application of interpretation of the terms of the Zoning
Regulations or other related policies adopted by the Village, and the burden of
proof for demonstrating same is on the applicant filing the appeal.
d.   In the event that the contested action is reversed or modified by the
PCZBA, all subsequent administrative actions with regard to the subject matter
must be in accordance with the reversal or modification granted by the PCZBA.
3.   Final Administrative Decision: The PCZBA's decision concerning an appeal
shall constitute the final administrative decision of the Village under the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/Art. III. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-
2022)
10-2C-8: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
In conjunction with any applicable requirements of Title 9 of the Municipal
Code concerning certificates of occupancy, the following requirements shall
apply:
A.   Certificate Required: A certificate of occupancy is required:
1.   For the occupancy of a new structure;
2.   For the occupancy or use of an addition or structural alteration to an
existing structure, other than a single-family detached dwelling; and
3.   For a new non-residential use or a change in the occupancy of an existing
non-residential use.
B.   Procedure:
1.   A certificate of occupancy may be issued only after the Building
Commissioner has inspected the premises and finds that the premises complies
with all standards of the Zoning Regulations and conforms to the plans and
specifications approved as part of the building permit.
2.   The Building Commissioner may issue a temporary or conditional certificate
of occupancy to allow the structure or lot to be occupied for the proposed use,
provided that such certificate becomes final and effective only upon full
compliance with the requirements of the Zoning Regulations and building permit.
C.   Posting: Every certificate of occupancy required by a change in use or
occupancy for a non-residential use must be permanently posted in a prominent
place on the premises at all times. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-9: SIGN PERMITS AND EXEMPTIONS:
A.   In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B
of Chapter 2 of this Title, sign permits with electrical elements are subject
to approval by the Building Commissioner pursuant to Section
10-10-7 of this Code.
B.   In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B
of Chapter 2 of this Title, certain signs that are temporary, portable, or in
the Railroad District are subject to approval by the Building Commissioner
pursuant to Section
10-10-13 of this Code.
C.   In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B
of Chapter 2 of this Title, all other signs not otherwise exempt pursuant to
Section
10-10-19 are subject to approval by the Architectural Board of Review pursuant
to Sections
10-10-14 and
10-10-15 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-10: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
A.   In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B
of Chapter 2 of this Title, the procedure for Planned Commercial Developments
(PCDs) shall be as provided in Chapter 14 of the Zoning Regulations.
B.   In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B
of Chapter 2 of this Title, the procedure for Planned Mixed-Use Developments
(PMDs) shall be as provided in Chapter 15 of the Zoning Regulations.
C.   In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B
of Chapter 2 of this Title, the procedures for Planned Residential Developments
(PRDs) shall be as provided in Chapter 17 of the Zoning Regulations. (Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-11: RIO DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW:
In addition to the generally applicable provisions contained in Article B of
Chapter 2 of this Title, Development within the Recreational, Institutional,
and Open Space District is subject to RIO Development Plan Review as set forth
in
Chapter 16 of the Zoning Regulations. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-12: SETTLEMENT OF LITIGATION:
A.   Authority: Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Zoning Regulations,
the Board of Trustees may grant zoning approvals in connection with the
settlement of pending or actual litigation against the Village subject only to
the provisions of this Section; provided, however, that this Section shall not
apply to actions seeking review of any final administrative decision under the
Zoning Regulations.
B.   Powers: For the purpose of settling pending litigation on terms deemed by
it to be most advantageous to the Village, the Board of Trustees shall have the
power to grant any approval authorized by the Zoning Regulations or to modify
or vary the provisions of this Code as they apply to the property which is the
subject of such litigation.
C.   Procedure: Before exercising its powers under this Section, the Board of
Trustees shall set, notice, and conduct a public hearing in accordance with the
Zoning Regulations. No other procedure shall be required.
D.   Effect of Settlements. Where the Village approves and executes a
settlement agreement that results in the entering into a dismissal order or
other final order in land use litigation related to the use, zoning and
subdivision of property in the Village and brought by, or filed against, the
Village, any Village board or commission, or the Village building commissioner,
and the agreement sets forth procedures and standards for future zoning or
subdivision applications related to the property that conflict with the
otherwise applicable zoning and subdivision procedures and standards set forth
in the Village Code, the terms of the settlement agreement will control but
only to the extent of such conflict. This subsection D applies notwithstanding
any other provision of this Title or Title 11 of the Village Code, and
regardless of whether the settlement agreement was enacted by the Village Board
pursuant to this Section or by other means. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2C-13: FLOOR AREA BONUSES FOR LANDMARKED PROPERTIES:
A property with a structure designated as a Protected Feature pursuant to
Section
9-14-10 of this Code shall automatically qualify for a one-time, maximum floor
area bonus to allow the property to exceed the applicable maximum floor area
ratio of up to ten percent (10%) provided that, prior to conducting any
Alteration or Work (as those terms are defined in Section
9-14-5 of this Code) on the property pursuant to which the owner seeks to
utilize the floor area bonus, the Historic Preservation Commission determines
that the Alteration or Work is consistent with the criteria provided in Section
9-14-30 of this Code. This subsection shall not apply to properties that
already exceed one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the maximum floor area
ratio that would otherwise apply to the property, regardless of whether the
property is legally nonconforming to the maximum floor area ratio requirement
or has previously been granted a variation from the maximum floor area ratio
requirement.
If an owner utilizes the one-time, floor area bonus provided in this Section to
make an Alteration or conduct Work on the property, regardless of whether the
owner utilized the maximum floor area bonus, neither the owner nor a subsequent
owner of the property may apply for or use the floor area bonus again and must
utilize the property in conformance with all other applicable provisions of the
Zoning Regulations. (Ord. 2023-7, 4-25-2023)
ARTICLE D. ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
10-2D-1: Enforcement Officer
10-2D-2: Fines
10-2D-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The Zoning Regulations shall be enforced by the Building Commissioner, who may
exercise all the powers authorized by the statutes of the State of Illinois,
this Code, and the Village's home rule authority to ensure compliance with or
to prevent or abate any violations of the provisions of this Title. In addition
to any other remedy provided and without limitation, the Building Commissioner
may further:
A.   Issue Stop Orders, Cease and Desist Orders: Notify in writing the person
responsible for violations, indicting the nature of the violation and ordering
specific action necessary to correct the violation, including the
discontinuance of illegal uses; the removal of illegal structures, additions,
or alterations; or the discontinuance of illegal work underway.
B.   Withhold or Deny Approvals for Property: Withhold or deny all permits,
certificates of occupancy, and other approvals for any building or structure on
property where there is an uncorrected violation of this Title or of the
conditions of any permit, certificate, or other approval granted by the Village
pursuant to this Title. The Village may also condition permits or approvals
upon the correction of the violation.
C.   Revoke Prior Approvals: Seek to revoke any permit, certificate of
occupancy, or other approval benefitting the property involved in the
violation.
D.   Cause Abatement and Liens: Order any work necessary to abate any violation
of this Code and assess the cost of such work to person or entity committing
the violation and the property owner, if different. Upon the failure to pay
such cost, the Building Commissioner may file a lien for such costs and all
costs of collection against the property in question.
E.   Issue Fines and Citations: Issue fines in accordance with Section
10-2D-2 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-2D-2: FINES:
Each violation is subject to a fine of not less than $25 and not more than the
maximum fine provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. For purposes of this Section and this Title, each day that
a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate violation and
offense. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Districts Established
10-3-2: Areas Classified In Districts
10-3-3: Zoning Map
10-3-4: Determination Of District Boundaries
10-3-5: Zoning Of Annexed Land
10-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades and
industries, and the location of buildings designated for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
altered; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; and to
regulate and determine the area of yards, courts and other open spaces within
and surrounding such buildings, the Village is hereby divided into classes of
districts. The use and bulk regulations are uniform in each class or district,
and such districts shall be known as:
District             Abbreviation
Residence Districts:
District                                             Abbreviation
Residence Districts:
Country Estate Residence District                    C-E
Estate Residence District                            E-1
A-A-A-A Residence District                           E-2
A-A-A Residence District                             R-1
A-A Residence District                               R-2
A Residence District                                 R-3
B Residence District                                 R-4
C Residence District                                 R-5
D Residence District                                 R-6
Business Districts:
Central Business District                            CBD
Office and Research District                         O&R
Automotive Park District                             AP-1
Industrial Districts:
Light Industry District                              L-1
Limited Light Industry District                      L-2
Service District                                     S
Railroad District                                    R
Other districts:
Recreational, Institutional, and Open Space District RIO
 
(Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-3-2: AREAS CLASSIFIED IN DISTRICTS:
It is intended that the entire area of the Village, including all land and
water areas such as lakes, parks, streets, alleys, railroad and other rights-
of-way, shall be included in one of the districts established by this title.
Any area within the Village that is not clearly shown on the Village zoning map
as being included within any district shall be deemed to be in the Estate
Residence District (E-1). (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-3-3: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the zoning map of the
Village, which map is hereby adopted (by reference) and made a part of this
title. Planned residential developments shall not be designated on the zoning
map unless and until the planned residential development(s) shall have been
approved pursuant to chapter 5, article J of this title. The zoning map, with
all the notations, references and other matters shown thereon, shall be on file
in the Office of the Village Clerk and shall be as much a part of this title as
if the notations, references and other matters set forth by said zoning map
were all fully described herein. (Ord. 2006-23, 10-23-2006)
10-3-4: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the various districts created by this title shall be the
boundaries shown on the zoning map. Where uncertainty exists with respect to
the boundaries of the various districts as shown on the zoning map, the
following rules shall apply:
A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise
shown, and where the designations on the zoning map indicate that the various
districts are approximately bounded by street or alley lines, the centerline of
such streets or alleys shall be construed to be the boundaries of such
districts.
B.   Where the district boundaries are not shown to be streets or alleys, and
where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots,
the district boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines, and where various
districts are approximately bounded by lot lines, such lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundaries of such districts.
C.   Where the district boundaries are not shown by the streets or alleys or
lot or block lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by use of the
scale shown on the map. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-3-5: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Any and all territory hereafter annexed to the Village shall be, and the same
is hereby declared to be, included in the Country Estate Residence District (C-
E) until and unless otherwise hereafter provided by ordinance after a public
hearing by the PCZBA in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987;
amd. Ord. 2012-10, 4-9-2012, eff. 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 4
USE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Purpose
10-4A-2: One Principal Use And Building Per Lot
10-4A-3: Setbacks
10-4A-4: Refuse Screening
10-4A-5: Time Limitation On Zoning Relief
10-4A-1: PURPOSE:
This Article identifies zoning regulations applicable to all zoning districts
and zoning uses. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4A-2: ONE PRINCIPAL USE AND BUILDING PER LOT:
A zoning lot may not have more than one single principal use or more than a
single principal building unless specifically authorized pursuant to the terms
of this Title. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4A-3: SETBACKS:
Every part of a setback shall be open from its lowest point to the sky,
unobstructed, and no underground structure may be built within a setback. The
following features may encroach on a setback, provided that such features are
of standard architectural dimensions as determined by the Building
Commissioner:
A.   Footings;
B.   Sills;
C.   Belt courses;
D.   Cornices;
E.   Ornamental features;
F.   Roof eaves under sloping roofs that protrude no more than 24 inches into
the setback. See section
10-13-1, illustration 4 of this title;
G.   Landings at side egress doors, no more than 3.5 feet wide and protruding
no more than 7.75 inches above grade. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4A-4: REFUSE SCREENING:
In all districts except single-family residential districts, areas utilized for
garbage, trash, or refuse disposal and all garbage, trash, and refuse
containers shall be screened at all times in such manner as approved by the
Architectural Board of Review. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4A-5: TIME LIMITATION ON ZONING RELIEF:
A.   One Year to Act Upon Relief: Subject to an extension of time granted by
the Village Administrator pursuant to subsection B of this Section, or granted
by the Board of Trustees by ordinance or resolution duly adopted, any permit or
approval granted pursuant to this Title that is subject to a public hearing or
public notice shall be valid for a period of one year unless: (i) a building
permit is issued and construction is actually begun within that period and is
thereafter diligently pursued to completion, or (ii) a certificate of occupancy
is issued and a use commenced within that period. Where a process includes
multiple approval steps, such as a preliminary plan for a planned development,
the intermediate approval shall be valid for a period of one year unless an
application is made for the next subsequent step and is thereafter diligently
pursued to the next subsequent approval.
B.   Time Extension: Unless the Board of Trustees, by a duly adopted ordinance
or resolution, shall expressly provide otherwise, the Village Administrator
may, upon written request, for good cause shown and without any notice or
hearing, extend the time limit imposed by subsection A of this Section for one
or more periods not exceeding 12 months in the aggregate if the Village
Administrator determines that such an extension is appropriate and necessary to
avoid undue hardship. All such written requests shall be submitted to the
Village Administrator prior to the expiration of the time limit for which an
extension is sought. The Village Administrator shall inform the Village Board
of all extensions granted pursuant to this subsection B. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-
2022)
ARTICLE B: USE-SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Purpose
10-4B-2: Aboveground Fuel Storage Tanks
10-4B-3: Adult Entertainment Establishments
10-4B-4: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
10-4B-5: Community Residences
10-4B-6: Medical Cannabis Dispensaries
10-4B-7: Personal Wireless Services Antennas And Facilities
10-4B-8: Short-Term Rentals
10-4B-9: Solar Energy Systems
10-4B-10: Wind Energy Systems
10-4B-1: PURPOSE:
This Article identifies zoning regulations applicable to specific permitted or
special uses in all zoning districts. Each Section identifies specific
conditions and restrictions applicable to the specified use category. These
regulations are intrinsic to and inseparable from the definition provided as a
use category. The use shall be prohibited unless it is operated in a manner
consistent with the regulations. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-2: ABOVEGROUND FUEL STORAGE TANKS:
A.   Permitted Districts: Aboveground fuel storage tanks shall be permitted
only in the following districts: L-1 District, L-2 District, S District, R
District, and AP-1 District.
B.   Location: No aboveground fuel storage tank shall be located less than 500
feet from any lot on which a residential or apartment building, school, nursing
home, or daycare center or facility is located. For purposes of this provision,
distances shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest point of the aboveground fuel storage
tank to the nearest point on the lot line of the lot on which a residential or
apartment building, school, nursing home, or daycare center or facility is
located.
C.   Capacity: The maximum capacity for any single aboveground fuel storage
tank shall not exceed 2,500 gallons. The maximum capacity for all aboveground
fuel storage tanks located on any one zoning lot shall not exceed 5,000
gallons.
D.   Number Per Lot: Not more than two aboveground fuel storage tanks shall be
located on any one zoning lot at any one time.
E.   Evidence Of Permits, Licenses Or Certifications: The owner or operator of
any aboveground fuel storage tank shall provide to the Village fire chief,
prior to installation of the tank, evidence of any permits, licenses, or
certifications required by any licensing or regulatory authorities other than
the Village.
F.   Health Or Safety: No aboveground fuel storage tank shall be operated or
maintained at any time so as to constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of individuals or property, as determined by the Village fire chief.
G.   Fire Chief Approval: The operation of all aboveground fuel storage tanks
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Village Fire Chief.
H.   Compliance With Applicable Regulations And Laws: All aboveground fuel
storage tanks shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, and regulations, including specifically, but without limitation,
the rules and regulations set forth in this Title and Section
5-3-3 of this Code (Fire Prevention Code).
I.   Additional Regulations: In addition to the specific regulations set forth
in this entry, aboveground fuel storage tanks shall be subject to such
additional regulations as the Village Board of trustees may deem necessary,
including specifically, but without limitation, regulations regarding: (i)
landscaping, (ii) screening, and (iii) the proposed location, construction, and
maintenance of the fuel storage tank. Additional regulations imposed pursuant
hereto shall be specifically set forth in the ordinance granting a special use
permit for any aboveground fuel storage tank. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-3: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
A.   Permitted District: Adult entertainment establishments shall be permitted
only in the L-2 District.
B.   Location:
1.   Minimum Distance From Other Adult Entertainment Establishments: No adult
entertainment establishment shall be established, maintained, or operated on
any lot that has a property line within 1,000 feet of the property line of any
other lot on which any other adult entertainment establishment is located,
established, maintained, or operated.
2.   Minimum Distance From Protected Uses: No adult entertainment establishment
shall be established, maintained, or operated on any lot that has a property
line within 1,000 feet of the property line of any other lot on which a
protected use is located, established, maintained or operated.
3.   Minimum Distance From Residential Property: No adult entertainment
establishment shall be located, established, maintained, or operated on any lot
that has a property line within one 1,000 feet of the property line of any
residential property.
4.   Measurement: For the purposes of this subsection, distances shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest point on the property line of the lot on which the
adult entertainment establishment is located to the nearest point on a property
line of: 1) any residential property or 2) any lot on which a protected use or
other adult entertainment establishment, as the case may be, is located,
established, maintained, or operated.
5.   Limited Exceptions: An adult entertainment establishment lawfully
operating under this Code and under the Village adult use ordinance shall not
be deemed to be in violation of the location restrictions set forth herein
solely because: 1) a protected use subsequently locates within the minimum
required distance of the adult entertainment establishment, or 2) property
within the minimum required distance subsequently becomes residential property.
This entry shall not apply to an adult entertainment establishment at a time
when an application for an adult entertainment license under the adult use
ordinance for that establishment is submitted after the license has previously
expired, has been revoked, or is at that time under suspension. (Ord. 2022-38,
12-12-2022)
10-4B-4: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
No property anywhere within the boundaries of the Village may be used for a
cannabis business establishment either as a principal or accessory use. This
prohibition shall not apply to medical cannabis dispensaries. (Ord. 2022-38,
12-12-2022)
10-4B-5: COMMUNITY RESIDENCES:
A.   Definition: A community residence is any use of a dwelling unit for the
habitation by persons, whether adults or minors, who do not constitute a family
and who are suffering from a handicap, as defined in, or judicially construed
to be covered by, the United States fair housing act, 42 USC section 3602(h)
(1), as the same has been, and may from time to time hereafter be, amended, or
from a disability or impairment that the Board of Trustees determines, in its
sole and absolute discretion, is similar to, but does not fall within said
definition of, a handicap, together with caregivers and staff. The following
are specifically excluded from this definition: living arrangements that serve
as an alternative to incarceration; hospitals and clinics; boarding houses;
convalescent homes; homes for the aged; orphanages; and similar facilities.
B.   Mapping Restriction: Community residences shall be permitted only in the
following districts: C-E, E-1, E-2, A-A-A (R-1), A-A (R-2), A (R-3), B (R-4), C
(R-5), and D (R-6).
C.   Location Restriction: No community residence shall be located less than
3,000 feet from any other community residence.
D.   Size Limitations: The unit in which a community residence is located shall
have not more than one occupant per 100 square feet of floor area devoted to
use for sleeping purposes; provided, however, that the Village Board of
trustees may waive such requirement in connection with the issuance of a
special use permit.
E.   Evidence Of Licenses: Each community residence shall provide evidence of
any licenses or certifications required by any licensing or regulatory
authorities other than the Village to the Building Commissioner.
F.   Supervision Of Children: Where any of the residents of the community
residence are children, there must be at least one adult on the premises when
such children are present, which adult shall be responsible, at all such times,
for the supervision and the wellbeing of all such children. Where required
under state or federal law, such adult supervisor shall be a duly qualified,
trained, and licensed caregiver.
G.   Special Conditions: Each community residence shall comply with such lawful
special conditions relating to fencing, screening, traffic, parking, visitors,
equipment, and other matters as the Board of Trustees shall determine to be
necessary and appropriate to prevent or minimize adverse effects on other
property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed community residence or
upon public facilities or services, based upon the population of residents to
be served in the community residence and the conditions of both the property on
which the community residence is located and the surrounding properties.
H.   Identification Of Handicapped Residents: As part of its application for a
special use permit for a community residence, the applicant shall identify
whether any or all of the proposed residents of such facility fall within the
definition of "handicap" as set forth in, or as judicially construed to be
covered by, the fair housing act, 42 USC section 3602(h)(1), as the same has
been, and may from time to time hereafter be, amended.
I.   Reasonable Accommodations For Community Residences:
1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to provide a procedure to
request reasonable accommodation from the strict application of the Village's
zoning regulations concerning special use permits for community residences
pursuant to this section for persons seeking equal access to housing under the
fair housing act, 42 USC section 3602(h)(1) (the "Act") and who have
disabilities or handicaps as defined by the act.
2.   Applicability: A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any
person with a disability or handicap, as defined by the act, or by an entity
acting on behalf of a person or persons with disabilities or handicaps to
provide or secure equal opportunity to use and enjoy a community residence when
the normal application of these zoning regulations would act as a barrier to
such equal opportunities. A request for reasonable accommodation may include a
modification or exception to the Village's zoning regulations when such
modification or exception is necessary to eliminate regulatory barriers and
provide a person with a disability or handicap with equal opportunity to use
and enjoy a community residence. Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be
made in the manner prescribed by subsection J3 of this section.
3.   Application Requirements:
a.   Application: Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be submitted on
an application form provided by the Building Commissioner and shall contain the
following information:
(1)   The applicant's name, address, and telephone number;
(2)   The street address and legal description of the property for which the
request is being made;
(3)   The current actual use of the property; and
(4)   The zoning regulation or regulations from which reasonable accommodation
is being requested.
b.   Additional Information: The following information shall be submitted with
the application:
(1)   A statement from the applicant describing the basis for the claim that
the individual (or group of individuals, if application is made by an entity
acting on behalf of a person or persons with disabilities or handicaps) is
considered disabled or handicapped under the act.
(2)   A statement as to why the requested accommodation is financially,
therapeutically, or otherwise necessary to afford a handicapped or disabled
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a community residence.
(3)   Documentation supporting the financial, therapeutic, or other necessity
for the accommodation
c.   Filing: Upon the filing of the application, together with all information
required in this section, the Building Commissioner shall refer the request for
reasonable accommodation from these community residence regulations to the
PCZBA.
4.   Public Hearing: Following the proper filing of a complete application for
reasonable accommodation, notice of a public hearing shall be provided and a
public hearing shall be conducted by the PCZBA in accordance with the
provisions contained in this subsection.
a.   Notice Of Public Hearings:
(1)   Building Commissioner To Give Notice: The Building Commissioner shall
cause notice to be given of public hearings set pursuant to this section in the
form and manner and to the persons herein specified.
(2)   Content Of Notice: All notices shall include the date, time, and place of
the hearing or meeting, a description of the matter to be heard or considered,
a legal description of the subject property, and the address or particular
location of the subject property.
(3)   Persons Entitled To Notice: Notice of hearings on an application for
designation shall be given by first class mail, not more than 30 days nor less
than 15 days immediately prior to the hearing, to the applicant, the owner or
owners of record, and, if known, to other persons having a legal or equitable
interest in the subject property. Notice shall also be given by publication in
a newspaper of general circulation in the Village not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days immediately prior to the hearing.
b.   Concurrent Public Hearing For Related Zoning Relief: The PCZBA may conduct
a single public hearing to consider the applicant's request for reasonable
accommodation and any application by the applicant for related zoning relief,
including, without a limitation, a request for a special use permit for a
community residence, provided that each application is noticed for hearing as
required pursuant to the zoning regulations.
5.   Recommendation: The PCZBA shall recommend granting, granting with
modifications, or denying the request for reasonable accommodation. Failure of
the PCZBA to submit its recommendation to the Village Board within 60 days of
the close of the public hearing shall be deemed to be a recommendation of
approval, unless the delay is at the request of the applicant.
6.   Considerations: In making a determination regarding the reasonableness of
a requested accommodation, the following factors shall be considered:
a.   Whether the housing which is the subject of the request will be used by an
individual or a group of individuals considered disabled or handicapped under
the act;
b.   Whether the accommodation requested is financially, therapeutically, or
otherwise necessary to make specific housing available to the individual or
group of individuals with a disability or handicap under the act;
c.   Whether there are alternative reasonable accommodations available that
would provide an equivalent level of benefit;
d.   Whether alternative accommodations would be suitable based on the
circumstances of the particular application;
e.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would be consistent with
the general purpose and intent of the zoning district in which the use is
located;
f.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation substantially affects the
physical attributes of the property;
g.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would impose an undue
financial or administrative burden on the Village; and
h.   Whether the requested reasonable accommodation would require a fundamental
alteration in the nature of the Village's zoning regulations.
7.   Conditions: In granting a request for reasonable accommodation for a
community residence, the Village Board may impose any conditions of approval
deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure that the reasonable accommodation
would be consistent with the act and the considerations listed in this section.
(Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-6: MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARIES:
A.   Definitions: For purposes of this use, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
                                     A qualifying patient or a designated
                                     caregiver who has been issued and
                                     possesses a valid registry identification
CARDHOLDER:                          card by the department of public health
                                     pursuant to the compassionate use of
                                     Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410
                                     Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/1 et seq.
                                     A person who: a) is at least 21 years of
                                     age; b) has agreed to assist with a
                                     patient's medical use of cannabis; c) has
DESIGNATED CAREGIVER:                not been convicted of an excluded
                                     offense; and d) assists no more than one
                                     registered qualifying patient with the
                                     patient's medical use of cannabis.
                                     A room, building or other enclosed area
                                     equipped with locks or other security
                                     devices that permit access only by a
                                     cultivation center's agents or a
ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY:           dispensing organization's agent working
                                     for the registered cultivation center or
                                     the registered dispensing organization to
                                     cultivate, store, and distribute cannabis
                                     for registered qualifying patients.
                                     A sealed, traceable, food compliant,
                                     tamper resistant, tamper evident
MEDICAL CANNABIS CONTAINER:          container or package used for the purpose
                                     of containing medical cannabis from a
                                     cultivation center to a dispensing
                                     organization.
                                     A facility operated by an organization or
                                     business that is registered by the
                                     Illinois department of agriculture to
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: perform necessary activities to provide
                                     only registered medical cannabis
                                     dispensing organizations with usable
                                     medical cannabis.
                                     A facility operated by an organization or
                                     business that is registered by the
                                     Illinois department of financial and
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING          professional regulation to acquire
ORGANIZATION, OR DISPENSING          medical cannabis from a registered
ORGANIZATION, OR DISPENSARY          cultivation center for the purpose of
ORGANIZATION, OR DISPENSARY:         dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or
                                     related supplies and educational
                                     materials to registered qualifying
                                     patients.
                                     Food, oils, ointments, or other products
MEDICAL CANNABIS INFUSED PRODUCT:    containing usable cannabis that are not
                                     smoked.
                                     All Illinois statutes, regulations, and
                                     other requirements of law applicable to
                                     medical cannabis cultivation centers and
                                     dispensing organizations, including,
                                     without limitation, the provisions of all
                                     applicable state law, including, without
STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS:         limitation, the Illinois Medical Cannabis
                                     Program Act, 430 Illinois Compiled
                                     Statutes 130/1 et seq., the Illinois Drug
                                     Paraphernalia Control Act, 720 Illinois
                                     Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq., and all
                                     rules and regulations adopted in
                                     accordance thereto.
 
B.   Minimum Distance From Protected Uses: No medical cannabis dispensary shall
be established, maintained, or operated on any lot that has a property line
within 1,000 feet of the property line of a preexisting public or private
preschool or elementary or secondary school or daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home, or part day childcare facility. For the purposes of this
paragraph, distances shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest point on the property line
of the lot on which the medical cannabis dispensary is located, to the nearest
point on any property line of any use identified in this paragraph.
C.   Compliance With State Rules And Regulations: All medical cannabis
dispensaries shall comply with all applicable state rules and regulations.
D.   Single Use Property: No medical cannabis dispensary shall be established
in a multiple use or multiple-tenant property or on a site that shares parking
with other uses.
E.   Setbacks: Setbacks for a medical cannabis dispensary must be consistent
with the required setbacks of the applicable zoning district.
F.   Buffering From Other Medical Cannabis Dispensaries: Each medical cannabis
dispensary shall be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from all other medical
cannabis dispensaries as measured from the applicable property lines.
G.   Parking:
1.   Parking shall be located in an area which is visible from a public road or
private road that is accessible to the public.
2.   Parking areas shall be screened as required by the applicable zoning
district and in compliance with the state rules and regulations.
H.   Exterior Display:
1.   No medical cannabis dispensary shall be maintained or operated in a manner
that causes, creates or allows the public viewing of medical cannabis, medical
cannabis infused products or cannabis paraphernalia or similar products from
any sidewalk, public or private right of way or any property other than the lot
on which the dispensary is located.
2.   No portion of the exterior of the dispensary shall utilize or contain any
flashing lights, searchlights, spotlights, or any similar lighting system.
I.   Signage: Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this Code, the
following signage requirements are required for medical cannabis dispensaries:
1.   All commercial signage for a medical cannabis dispensary shall be limited
to one flat wall sign not to exceed ten square feet in area, and one
identifying sign, not to exceed two square feet in area, which may only include
the dispensary address.
2.   No signs may be directly illuminated.
3.   Exterior signs on the dispensary building shall not obstruct the entrance
or windows on the dispensary.
4.   Electronic message boards and temporary signs are not permitted in
connection with a dispensary.
5.   Signage shall not contain cannabis imagery such as cannabis leaves,
plants, smoke, paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented toward youth, or
language referencing cannabis.
J.   Hours Of Operation: Medical cannabis dispensaries shall operate only
between 6:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M.
K.   Drive-Through Windows: Medical cannabis dispensaries shall not have drive-
through facilities or provide drive-through service.
L.   Security And Video Surveillance: Each medical cannabis dispensary must
provide security and video surveillance as required by the state rules and
regulations.
M.   Conduct On Site:
1.   Loitering is prohibited on the dispensary property.
2.   It shall be prohibited to smoke, inhale or consume cannabis products in
the medical cannabis dispensary or anywhere on the property occupied by the
dispensary. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-7: PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES ANTENNAS AND FACILITIES:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide specific regulations
and standards for the placement and siting of personal wireless services
antennas and related facilities that are meant to provide personal wireless
services in the Village. The goal of this Section is to provide regulations
that will facilitate the location of various types of personal wireless
services antennas and facilities in permitted locations so that they are
consistent with the character of the Village. The sizable areas of open space,
the extensive natural landscaping, and the relatively low scale of structures
in the Village all contribute to this unique and distinctive setting.
Minimizing the adverse visual impact of personal wireless services antennas and
facilities within the Village, and especially within the residential core of
the Village, is one of the primary objectives of this Section, and the Village
encourages providers of personal wireless services to be creative in designing
personal wireless services antennas and facilities that minimally impact the
unique and distinctive character of the Village. This Section is intended to
allow personal wireless services antennas and facilities that are sufficient to
allow adequate personal wireless services to citizens, the traveling public,
and others within the Village, while maintaining the unique character of the
Village as described in the Comprehensive Plan.
B.   Separation From Residential Districts And Properties: Personal wireless
services antennas, antennas support structures, and personal wireless services
facilities shall not be located within 500 feet from the nearest outside wall
of any single-family dwelling in existence prior to the commencement of
construction of such personal wireless services antennas, antenna support
structures, or personal wireless services facilities; provided, however, that
the personal wireless services antennas, antenna support structures, or
personal wireless services facilities that are located on property owned by the
Village may be located within 500 feet, but not less than 150 feet, from the
nearest outside wall of any single-family dwelling.
C.   Design Of Antenna Support Structure: Every newly constructed antenna
support structure for a personal wireless services antenna, other than an
existing structure that is designed primarily for a purpose other than
supporting a personal wireless services antenna, shall:
1.   Be constructed at the minimum height required to adequately serve the
antennas placed thereon;
2.   Be a monopole, unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Trustees for
good cause shown;
3.   Not be illuminated or have any signs installed thereon (other than private
warning signs) unless otherwise required by federal law or regulations or
authorized by the Board of Trustees;
4.   Be separated from any building on an adjoining lot by a distance that is
not less than 110 percent of the height of the antenna support structure and be
designed to withstand a wind force of 120 miles per hour without the use of
supporting guywires. For the purposes of this requirement, this distance shall
be measured horizontally from the center of the base of the antenna support
structure to the point where the ground meets a vertical wall of such building;
and
5.   Be adequately screened from view by the natural tree landscaping or
otherwise designed in such a manner that the antenna support structure itself
is minimally intrusive to the visual landscape.
D.   Location:
1.   Unavailability Of Village Sites: No personal wireless services antenna or
antenna support structure shall be permitted on any lot that is not owned or
occupied by the Village unless the applicant is able to demonstrate that no
Village owned or occupied property is available, on commercially reasonable
terms, and sufficient for the location of an antenna necessary for the
provision of personal wireless services.
2.   Existing Structures: Personal wireless services antennas shall be mounted
on existing antenna support structures or other lawfully existing buildings,
unless otherwise provided in this section. No more than one antenna support
structure shall be permitted on any one zoning lot.
E.   Collocation: Unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Trustees for good
cause shown, every newly constructed antenna support structure for the
provision of personal wireless services shall be designed, constructed and
installed to be of a sufficient size and capacity to allow the commercially
feasible location of personal wireless services antennas for additional
providers of personal wireless services on such structure in the future. Any
permit for such an antenna support structure may be conditioned on the
agreement of the applicant to allow collocation of another provider of personal
wireless services on commercially reasonable terms specified in such permit.
F.   Height: Personal wireless services antennas, antenna support structures,
or personal wireless services facilities may extend to the following heights:
1.   Antennas And Antenna Support Structures:
a.   Monopoles: Antenna support structures for personal wireless services
antennas may be a monopole that extends to a height of not more than 180 feet.
Any deck on such a monopole shall be centered on the monopole and the radius
from the center of the monopole to the outside of the deck shall not exceed six
feet. No side of any such deck shall exceed six feet vertically.
b.   Antenna Support Structures Attached To Existing Buildings:
(1)   Omnidirectional Or "Whip" Antennas: Omnidirectional or "whip" antennas
may extend not more than 12 feet above the highest point of the antenna support
structure on which it is mounted.
(2)   Directional Or Panel Antennas: Directional or "panel" antennas may not
extend above the highest point of the antenna support structure on which it is
mounted.
2.   Personal Wireless Services Facilities: Personal wireless services
facilities located in a separate structure shall be limited by the applicable
height limitations for accessory structures in the zoning Code. Personal
wireless services facilities located in, or mounted on, an antenna support
structure shall not exceed the height of such antenna support structure.
G.   Color: Every personal wireless services antenna and antenna support
structure shall be of neutral colors that are harmonious with, and that blend
with, the natural features, buildings and structures surrounding such antenna
and antenna support structures; provided, however, that directional or "panel"
antennas and omnidirectional or "whip" antennas mounted on the exterior of a
building serving as an antenna support structure shall be of colors that match,
and cause the antenna to blend with, the exterior of the building.
H.   Buffering And Screening: Ground mounted antennas and antenna support
structures shall be buffered and screened by a perimeter landscaped open space
equal in width to the applicable required yard or ten feet, whichever is more,
and consisting of an opaque fence, wall, or densely planted trees, hedges, or
other landscaping materials. Such screening shall be provided between any such
ground mounted antenna or antenna support structure and each lot line of the
property on which such antenna or antenna support structure is located so as to
provide the maximum reasonably achievable screening, as determined by the
Village, of such antenna or antenna support structure from ground level view
from adjacent properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than ten feet in
height. Alternatively, for a roof mounted personal wireless services antenna
and antenna support structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening
shall be provided between such personal wireless services antenna and antenna
support structure and the view from adjoining properties and public or private
streets.
I.   Protection Against Climbing: Every personal wireless services antenna and
antenna support structure shall be protected against unauthorized climbing or
other access by the public with fencing or by other means approved by the
Building Commissioner.
J.   Equipment Enclosures: All electronic and other related equipment and
appurtenances necessary for the operation of any personal wireless services
antenna shall, whenever possible, be located within a lawfully preexisting
structure or completely below grade. Where the Architectural Board of Review
determines that the location of personal wireless facilities within an existing
structure or below grade cannot be achieved in a reasonably cost effective
manner, a new structure having not more than 150 square feet in gross floor
area may be constructed to house such equipment, provided that such structure
shall be harmonious with, and blend with, the natural features, buildings, and
structures surrounding such structure. In granting a special use permit, the
Village may waive the 150 square feet in order to permit construction of
enclosures that provide additional space allowing for future installation of
additional personal wireless services facilities.
K.   Licenses And Permits: The operator of every personal wireless services
antenna shall submit to the Village copies of all licenses and permits required
by other agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the design,
construction, location, and operation of such antenna and shall maintain such
licenses and permits and provide evidence of renewal or extension thereof when
granted. In addition, no personal wireless services antenna may be installed,
nor may any antenna support structure or personal wireless services facility be
constructed or altered, without a building permit issued therefor by the
Village.
L.   Abandonment And Removal: When any personal wireless services antenna,
antenna support structure, or personal wireless services facilities are not
operated for the provision of personal wireless services for a continuous
period of 12 months or more, such personal wireless services antenna, antenna
support structure, or personal wireless services facilities may be deemed to be
abandoned by the Village. The owner of such personal wireless services antenna,
antenna support structure, or personal wireless services facilities shall
remove such abandoned items within 90 days following the mailing of written
notice by the Village that removal is required. Such notice shall be sent by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by the Village to such
owner at the last known address of such owner. If two or more providers of
personal wireless services use an antenna support structure or personal
wireless services facility to provide personal wireless services, then the
period of nonuse under this provision for any antenna support structure or
personal wireless services facilities shall be measured from the cessation of
operation by all such providers of the antenna support structure or personal
wireless services facilities. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-8: SHORT-TERM RENTALS:
Short-term rentals are a permitted use subject to the following restrictions:
A.   Primary Residence: The short-term rental property must be the property
owner's primary residence.
B.   Residing: The property owner must reside at the property at least 275 days
each calendar year.
C.   Accessory And Secondary Dwellings: Accessory or secondary dwelling units
may not be used as short-term rentals.
D.   Parking:
1.   All overnight parking must be accomplished on site and on improved
surfaces.
2.   Properties with adjacent driveways may not be used as short-term rentals.
E.   Maximum Guests Per Night: No short-term rental shall serve more than 10
guests per night.
F.   Minimum Length: No short-term rental shall be rented for less than two
consecutive nights.
G.   Maximum Length: No short-term rental shall be rented for more than 45 days
or more than 15 individual booking periods in any calendar year, whichever
limit is reached first.
H.   Fire Alarm: All short-term rentals must have a fire alarm system monitored
by a UL certified central station.
I.   Life Safety Requirements: All short-term rentals must comply with the
following life safety requirements:
1.   Manual extinguishing equipment must be provided on each floor and in the
kitchen used by short-term rental guests in accordance with National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 10 - Standards for the Installation of Portable
Fire Extinguishers.
2.   No combustible storage is permitted in or under stairways.
3.   No cooking facilities are permitted in guest rooms.
4.   All hallways and stairways must be adequately lighted.
5.   Portable heating devices are prohibited in guest rooms.
6.   A floor plan of the property to be used for short-term rental must be
submitted to the Village.
7.   Smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors must be provided in each
guest room.
8.   All bedrooms used for short-term rental must contain an egress window that
complies with Section R310 of the 2015 International Residential Code.
Specifically, the bedroom egress window must have a net clear opening of not
less than 5.7 square feet obtained by the normal operation of the window from
the inside; provided however, an egress window at or below grade must have a
net clear opening of not less than five square feet. The egress window opening
shall be at least 24 inches high and at least 20 inches wide. The egress window
must have a sill height of not more than 44 inches. Egress windows at or below
grade must be provided with a window well with a horizontal area of not less
than nine square feet and with a horizontal projection and width of not less
than 36 inches.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, bedrooms constructed prior to October 26, 2010
may continue to use existing windows that use removable sashes to meet the
minimum egress window opening requirements.
9.   All stair systems with four or more risers must have handrails.
10.   GFCI outlets must be installed as required by the Village Building Code.
J.   Annual Registration:
1.   Registration Required: Every property owner desiring to use their property
as a short-term rental must register the property annually upon a form provided
by the Village and filed with the Village Administrator.
2.   Contents Of Registration Form: The registrant must truthfully provide the
information requested on the registration form, including, without limitation,
the following:
a.   The property address and name of the property owner;
b.   An affirmation that the owner resides at the property at least 275 days
per year;
c.   An affirmation that the owner has read and understands the restrictions
contained in this section;
d.   Proof that the property owner has an insurance policy that covers the
short-term rental use of the property in the amount of one million dollars per
occurrence and a minimum of two million dollars aggregate. This requirement
cannot be satisfied by insurance coverage provided by a short-term rental
platform, including without limitation, Airbnb and HomeAway;
e.   If the property owner will not reside at the property during any of the
short-term rental booking periods, the name and contact information for a local
contact person who will be available at all times during such booking periods
to immediately address non-emergency issues;
f.   An affirmation that copies or summaries of the applicable noise, solid
waste and recycling, parking, and short-term rental regulations are tendered to
each short-term rental guest; and
g.   A copy of the log required by subsection K of this section for the
preceding year.
3.   Annual Registration Fee: The fee for short-term rental registration shall
be paid to the Village at the time the annual registration form is filed, and
the registration fees for each short-term rental shall be set out in Section
1-12-3 of this Code, under category "license fees". The registration fee will
not be prorated.
4.   Life Safety Inspection Required: No short-term rental registration will be
approved until a life safety inspection of the property is conducted by the
Village.
5.   Registered List: A list of all registered short-term rentals will be
posted on the Village's website and maintained at Village Hall.
6.   Maximum Registered: No more than six short-term rentals shall be
registered by the Village at any one time; provided that the Village Board may
increase or decrease the maximum number of short-term rental registrations by
resolution duly adopted.
K.   Log: Owners must keep a log of the dates and the number of guests for each
short-term rental booking period.
L.   Advertising And Signage:
1.   On-site and off-site signage advertising or otherwise promoting a short-
term rental is prohibited.
2.   All online advertisements regarding short-term rentals, including listings
on platforms including, without limitation, Airbnb and HomeAway, shall:
a.   List a valid short-term rental registration number issued by the Village;
and
b.   Only advertise a short-term rental that complies with all of the short-
term rental regulations and restrictions set forth in this section.
M.   Taxes: The Village's Home Rule Hotel Tax must be collected on gross short-
term rental receipts and remitted to the Village in accordance with Title 1,
Chapter 8, Article H of this Code.
N.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not more than $5,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
The restrictions contained in this section shall be interpreted as minimum
standards, and shall be in addition to any other applicable Village ordinances
and requirements that apply to short-term rentals or the properties on which
they are located. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-9: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
A.   Permitted Solar Energy Systems: The following solar energy systems are
allowed as a permitted use:
1.   Building integrated solar energy systems in any zoning district;
2.   Self-contained solar energy systems in any zoning district;
3.   Building mounted solar energy systems on property other than that used for
residential purposes but only after design approval by the Architectural Board
of Review pursuant to Section
10-2C-6.
4.   Building mounted solar energy systems on property used for residential
purposes, after the Building Commissioner determines, based on review of the
application required pursuant to subsection C1 of this section, that the
proposed solar energy system:
a.   Complies with all applicable Village Codes, ordinances, and regulations.
b.   Does not extend above the highest point of the structure upon which it is
to be mounted.
c.   Does not direct concentrated solar radiation or glare onto nearby
properties or roadways.
d.   Satisfies any applicable architectural review requirements pursuant to
Title 9, chapter 13 of this Code, which may require a referral to and hearing
before the Architectural Board of Review pursuant to said chapter.
B.   Solar Energy Systems Requiring A Special Use Permit: Ground mounted solar
energy systems in all zoning districts are allowed after all of the following:
1) a determination by the Building Commissioner that, based on review of the
application required pursuant to subsection C1 of this section, the proposed
solar energy system complies with all applicable Village Codes, ordinances, and
regulations; 2) design review approval by the Architectural Board of Review;
and 3) the issuance of a special use permit therefor.
C.   Regulations Applicable To All Solar Energy Systems: All solar energy
systems shall comply with the regulations set forth in this subsection:
1.   Application Required For Building Mounted And Ground Mounted Systems: An
application is required to be submitted to, and approved by, the Village
Building Commissioner prior to the installation of a building mounted or ground
mounted solar energy system, which application must include, without
limitation, the following information:
a.   The name, address, and telephone number of: 1) the owner of the property,
and 2) the person, firm, or corporation that will install the proposed system;
b.   Drawings and/or photographs depicting the location, size, and design
details of the proposed system;
c.   The manufacturer's specifications of the solar collectors and other
devices included in the proposed system;
d.   Plans and specifications showing the method of construction of the
proposed system in compliance with the manufacturer's specifications;
e.   A site plan, drawn to scale, including, without limitation, the following
information:
(1)   The location and dimensions of all structures and solar collectors
proposed as part of solar energy system;
(2)   The location of any overhead or underground power lines, utilities, and
utility easements on the property;
(3)   A copy of stress sheets and calculations prepared by a licensed
professional engineer showing that the proposed system is designed for the
deadload or windload, in the amount required by the manufacturer and all
applicable law; and
(4)   All applicable information demonstrating compliance with laws as provided
in subsection C2 of this section; and
f.   A certification from the installer of the proposed solar energy system
that the proposed solar energy system shall not direct concentrated solar
radiation or glare onto nearby properties or roadways.
D.   Compliance With Laws: All solar energy systems shall comply with all
applicable Village, State, and Federal laws and regulations, including, without
limitation, the provisions of this section, this Title, and all Village
building ordinances and regulations.
E.   Interference With Utilities, Roads, And Neighboring Properties: No solar
energy system shall be operated in a manner so as to interfere with any public
right-of-way or any utility system in the Village, or so as to interfere with
the reasonable use and enjoyment of any other property in the Village.
F.   Engineering Requirements: Solar energy systems shall conform to all
applicable industry standards, including, without limitation, the standards
developed by the American National Standards Institute, as determined by the
Building Commissioner.
G.   Glare: Solar energy systems shall not direct concentrated solar radiation
or glare onto nearby properties or roadways. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-4B-10: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to:
1.   Establish reasonable and uniform regulations for the location,
installation, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of building mounted
wind energy systems (BWES);
2.   Assure that any development and production of wind generated electricity
in the Village is safe and to minimize any potentially adverse effects on
adjoining properties and the broader community;
3.   Facilitate the development and production of wind generated electricity in
the Village in a manner consistent with the existing character of the Village;
4.   Promote the supply of sustainable and renewable energy resources, in
support of national, state, and local goals; and
5.   Facilitate energy cost savings and economic opportunities for Village
residents and businesses.
B.   Definitions: When used in this Section, the following terms shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them:
                                     A WES that has not been repaired to
                                     operating condition within the applicable
ABANDONED WES:                       time frame set forth in subsection (3)(L)
                                     of this use, or for which the owner has
                                     not made all submissions required pursuant
                                     to subsection (6) of this use.
                                     The all encompassing sound at a given
                                     location, usually a composite of sounds
                                     from many sources near and far. For the
                                     purpose of this use, the "ambient sound
                                     level" shall mean the quietest of ten 10-
AMBIENT SOUND:                       second average sound levels measured when
                                     there are no nearby or distinctly audible
                                     sound sources (e.g., dogs or jets).
                                     Daytime ambient measurements should be
                                     made during midmorning weekday hours,
                                     while nighttime measurements should be
                                     made after 12:00 midnight.
                                     The portion of a WES that is designed to
BLADE:                               capture the wind, causing the shaft to
                                     turn.
BLADE TIP:                           The farthest extremes of a blade.
DAYTIME HOURS:                       The hours of the day from 7:00 A.M. to 10:
                                     00 P.M.
                                     The unit of sound level based on a
DECIBEL (dB):                        reference where zero dB represents the
                                     threshold of hearing at 1,000 Hz for a
                                     healthy young adult.
                                     The federal aviation administration of the
FAA:                                 United States department of
                                     transportation.
FCC:                                 The federal communications commission of
                                     the United States.
                                     When used in reference to a WES, "height"
                                     shall mean the vertical distance measured
                                     from grade to the highest point of the
HEIGHT:                              WES. When used in reference to any other
                                     structure, "height" shall have the meaning
                                     set forth in section
                                     10-1-5 of this Title.
                                     Waters of the United States or isolated
                                     waters of Lake County that are determined
HIGH QUALITY AQUATIC RESOURCE:       to be critical due to their uniqueness,
                                     scarcity, function and/or value, in
                                     accordance with the Lake County watershed
                                     development ordinance.
                                     A turbine for which the main rotor shaft
                                     is arranged horizontally, and typically
                                     for which the main rotor shaft and
HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE (HAWT): generator are located at the top of the
                                     tower on which the WES is mounted and
                                     pointed into the wind in order to generate
                                     electricity.
                                     Sound with frequencies below 100 Hz,
LOW FREQUENCY SOUND:                 including audible sound and sound at a
                                     frequency below that of human hearing
                                     (i.e., infrasound).
NACELLE:                             That part of a turbine containing the
                                     shaft, gear box, and generator.
                                     The amount of energy produced from a WES
NAMEPLATE WATTAGE:                   at maximum or optimum wind speeds within
                                     one hour, as indicated by the
                                     manufacturer.
                                     The time between 10:00 P.M. on one
NIGHTTIME HOURS:                     calendar day and 7:00 A.M. on the next
                                     calendar day.
                                     A property that is not owned by the owner
NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY:           of the property on which the WES is
                                     proposed or installed.
                                     For any WES, the condition of being
                                     capable of operating at full capacity
OPERABLE CONDITION:                  while meeting all sound, shadow flicker
                                     and other applicable conditions set forth
                                     in this Code.
                                     The on and off strobe light effect caused
SHADOW FLICKER:                      by the shadow of moving blades cast by the
                                     sun upon a turbine's blades.
                                     The difference or variation in brightness
SHADOW FLICKER INTENSITY:            at a given location in the presence and
                                     absence of a shadow.
                                     The area covered by moving blades of a WES
SILHOUETTE:                          turbine, as viewed from the front
                                     elevation, described in square feet.
                                     The A-weighted sound level in decibels
SOUND LEVEL:                         (dB) (or the C-weighted level, if
                                     specified).
                                     An engineer who is licensed and registered
                                     to practice structural engineering in the
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER:                 state of Illinois under the Illinois
                                     structural engineering act and whose
                                     principal professional practice is in the
                                     field of structural engineering.
                                     The reflection of sunlight off of a
SUN GLINT:                           surface of the turbine, tower, or other
                                     component of a WES.
TAIL:                                The portion of the WES that keeps the
                                     blades facing directly into the wind.
                                     The structure on which a turbine is
TOWER:                               mounted, which structure is a component of
                                     a WES.
TURBINE:                             The blades, nacelle, and tail of a WES.
                                     A turbine of which the main rotor shaft is
VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE (VAWT):   arranged vertically and that does not need
                                     to be pointed into the wind in order to
                                     generate electricity.
 
C.   General Regulations: Except as specifically provided otherwise in
subsections D and E of this Section, all WES shall comply with the following
general regulations:
1.   Only Building Mounted Wind Energy Systems Permitted: Building mounted wind
energy systems (BWES) are the only type of WES permitted in the Village. Tower
mounted wind energy systems (TMWES) are prohibited throughout the Village.
2.   Compliance With Laws: All BWES shall comply with all applicable Village,
state, and federal laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the
provisions of this subsection, this Code, and all Village building ordinances
and regulations.
3.   Compliance With Permits: All BWES shall comply with all applicable BWES
permits issued pursuant to this use, including, without limitation, all
conditions imposed by the Village as a condition of issuance of the permits.
4.   Horizontal Axis Wind Turbines Prohibited: No BWES may include a horizontal
axis wind turbine at any location for any use within the Village.
5.   Interference With Utilities, Roads, And Neighboring Properties: No BWES
shall be operated in a manner so as to interfere with any public right of way
or any utility system in the Village, or so as to interfere with the reasonable
use and enjoyment of any other property in the Village.
D.   General Engineering Regulations.
1.   All BWES facilities shall be designed to withstand a minimum wind velocity
of 100 miles per hour, with an impact pressure of 40 pounds per square foot.
2.   Each BWES shall conform to all applicable industry standards, including,
without limitation, the standards developed by the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI).
3.   All BWES facilities shall be equipped with automatic and manual braking
systems.
4.   For turbines greater than 20 kW of nameplate capacity, the seal of a
structural engineer shall be required.
E.   General Installation Regulations.
1.   BWES facilities must be installed according to manufacturer
specifications.
2.   All necessary electrical connections must be made by a licensed
electrician.
F.   General Sound Level Regulations.
1.   The average sound level produced by a WES shall not exceed the following
maximums in the following locations:
a.   On any nonparticipating property located within a residential district, or
used for residential purposes or for a school: 55 dBA during daytime hours, and
45 dBA during nighttime hours;
b.   On any nonparticipating property used for industrial purposes, 65 dBA at
any time; and
c.   On any other nonparticipating property, 60 dBA at any time.
2.   No BWES shall operate with an average sound level more than five dBA above
the nonoperational ambient level, as measured on any nonparticipating property
used for residential purposes or for a school that is within 500 feet of the
WES, or, if none, on any other nonparticipating property.
3.   To limit the level of low frequency sound, the average C-weighted sound
level during BWES operation shall not exceed the A-weighted ambient sound level
by more than 20 dB.
4.   Sound level meters used for sound measurement must meet the requirements
of a type 2 or better precision instrument according to ANSI S1.4 (American
National Standard Specification For Sound Level Meters), and must measure the
average sound level using an integrating sound level meter that meets the
requirements of ANSI S1.43 (American National Standard Specifications For
Integrating Averaging Sound Level Meters). Measurement procedures must meet the
applicable portions of ANSI S1.29. Average sound level shall be calculated by
time averaging sound levels for a period of not less than one minute nor more
than two minutes. Measurements shall not be made when ground level winds exceed
ten miles per hour.
5.   For purposes of calculating sound levels, five dBA shall be added to the
measured average sound level from a BWES as a penalty when its sound emissions
have an adverse character, as determined by the Village's Building Commissioner
in the Building Commissioner's sole discretion, that includes, without
limitation, prominent tones (e.g., a humming sound) or an amplitude fluctuation
in synchronicity with the blade revolution (e.g., a periodic swishing sound).
6.   The Village may require the owner of a BWES, as the Village may determine
necessary and at the owner's sole expense, to obtain field tests or sound
propagation modeling, conducted or supervised by an acoustics specialist
certified by the Institute Of Noise Control Engineering, to determine whether a
violation of this subsection is occurring or has occurred. In the event that a
violation is occurring, the owner shall immediately discontinue operation of
the BWES and promptly remedy the violation.
G.   General Shadow Flicker Regulations.
1.   No shadow flicker caused by any BWES shall fall at any time upon any
building on a nonparticipating property that is either located in a residential
district or that is used for residential purposes or for a school.
2.   No shadow flicker caused by any BWES shall fall for more than one hour on
any calendar day on any window of a building on any nonparticipating property
that is not located in a residential district and that is not used for
residential purposes or for a school.
3.   As a condition of any permit issued pursuant to this subsection, the
Village may require the applicant to commit to a schedule for turning BWES
turbines off, in order to ensure compliance with the applicable shadow flicker
regulations set forth in this subsection.
H.   Cessation Of Operation In Emergency: The owner of the BWES shall be
required to immediately cease operation of the BWES for the duration of any
emergency, as determined by the Village Administrator or the Village
Administrator's designee. For purposes of this subsection, an emergency shall
mean a condition or situation caused by the BWES or a natural or manmade
disaster that presents an imminent physical threat of danger to life or
significant threat to property.
I.   Electronic Interference: BWES facilities shall not be operated so as to
cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of microwave, television,
radio, internet or other wireless transmissions, including public emergency
communications systems, in a manner contrary to FCC regulations or other
federal, state or local laws. For purposes of this subsection, "degradation in
performance" shall be determined in accordance with the latest principles and
standards of the American Institute Of Electrical Engineers, the Institute Of
Radio Engineers, and the Electrical Industries Association.
J.   Maintenance.
1.   BWES facilities shall be maintained in operable condition at all times,
except for reasonable maintenance and repair outages.
2.   Should a BWES become inoperable, or should any part of the BWES become
damaged, or should a BWES violate a permit condition, the owner of the BWES
shall cease operations immediately and remedy the condition within 90 days
after receipt of a notice from the Village Administrator or the Village
Administrator's designee regarding the condition; provided, however, that if
the condition presents an immediate threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare, the owner of the BWES shall remedy the condition promptly.
K.   Reporting To Village: Not less than once every 12 months, the owner of
each BWES shall submit to the Village a sworn statement that the operation and
maintenance of the BWES has been performed in compliance with all applicable
directions issued by the manufacturer thereof, along with supporting evidence
as may be requested by the Village.
L.   Decommissioning.
1.   A BWES that is not in operable condition for a period exceeding 180
consecutive days shall be deemed abandoned. The owner of an abandoned BWES and
the owner of the property on which the BWES is located shall cause the removal
of all BWES structures and facilities within 90 days after receipt of a notice
of abandonment from the Village.
2.   Any abandoned BWES that is not removed within 90 days after receipt of a
notice of abandonment shall be deemed a public nuisance, which nuisance the
Village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to summarily abate by
removing such BWES at the joint and several expense of the owners of the BWES
and of the property on which the BWES is located. In the case of such removal,
the Village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to file a lien for
reimbursement of any and all expenses incurred by the Village in connection
with the removal, including, without limitation, attorney fees and accrued
interest.
3.   Upon removal of the BWES, the subject property shall be restored to its
original pre-BWES construction condition.
M.   Performance Standards: In addition to the provisions of this use, all WES
facilities shall be subject to, and comply with, the applicable performance
standards for the zoning district where the WES facilities are located. If any
provision of the performance standards for the zoning district conflict with
any provisions of this use, the more restrictive provision will be applied.
N.   Installation: BWES devices may be structurally attached either on the roof
or on the side of a building, if in accordance with the Village building Code.
There shall be no maximum number of BWES devices that may be installed on any
property, provided that each such device complies with all applicable
provisions of this Code.
O.   Height: No portion of any BWES facility shall extend more than 15 feet
above the highest point of the building on which they are mounted.
P.   Diameter: Unless authorized pursuant to a special use permit, the maximum
diameter of a BWES shall be as follows:
1.   For a BWES that is mounted on a residential building, or on a property
abutting a nonparticipating property that is located within a residential
district or used for residential purposes, the diameter of the BWES shall not
exceed the lesser of 10 feet, or 20 percent of the width of the front elevation
of the building on which the BWES is mounted.
2.   For all other BWES, the diameter shall not exceed the lesser of 10 feet,
or 50 percent of the width of the front elevation of the building on which the
BWES is mounted.
Q.   Color And Sun Glint: BWES facilities shall be finished in a neutral color.
The finish shall be flat or matte, so as to reduce incidence of sun glint. The
required coloration and finish shall be maintained throughout the life of the
BWES.
R.   Signage: No BWES shall have any advertising material, writing, picture, or
signage, other than warning information or manufacturer identification.
S.   Environmental Impact: In order to reduce potential bird perching and
nesting, all structures used for BWES facilities shall be designed as enclosed
tubular structures with pointed tops (monopoles), rather than lattice
structures, unless alternative mitigation strategies are otherwise approved by
the Village.
T.   Indemnification: The owner of each BWES, and the owner of the property on
which the BWES is located, shall jointly and severally defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the Village and its officials from and against any and all
claims, demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs,
expenses and liabilities whatsoever including attorney fees arising out of any
permit, approval, inspection, or other act or omission of the Village, or any
acts or omissions of the owners concerning the operation of the BWES project
without limitation, whether said liability is premised on contract or on tort.
U.   Subsequent Development: No BWES that is constructed and operated in
compliance with this use shall be deemed to be in violation of this use solely
as a result of any construction on, or rezoning of, any nonparticipating
property that occurs after the first date of operation of the BWES.
V.   Applications For Wind Energy Systems: In addition to such other data and
information ordinarily required in connection with an application for a special
use permit, an application for a special use permit for a BWES shall submit to
the Village as part of its application at least the following information:
1.   A project summary, including, without limitation, the manufacturer
information and number of proposed turbines.
2.   Current photographs of the proposed location of the BWES.
3.   A front elevation depiction of the subject property, showing the location
and proposed height of the top of the turbine from top of the building.
4.   Proof of homeowner or business general liability insurance, as
appropriate, with a minimum coverage level of one million dollars per
occurrence.
5.   Approval letter from the local electric utility company, if the system is
to be connected to the energy grid.
6.    A copy of the directions issued by the manufacturer of the proposed BWES
for the proper installation, operation, and maintenance of the BWES.
7.   A certification of design compliance for the proposed BWES with respect to
the applicable noise, structural, and safety regulations set forth in this use,
which certification must have been obtained from Underwriters Laboratories
(UL), National Renewable Energy Laboratories (NREL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV),
Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energie (GL), or an equivalent third party.
8.   An executed maintenance covenant, on a form provided by the Village,
providing that the owner and all subsequent owners of the subject property will
maintain the BWES in accordance and compliance with this use and with the
maintenance directions issued by the manufacturer of the BWES. Said covenant
shall, if approved, be recorded with the recorder of deeds of Lake County,
Illinois and run with the property.
9.   The name of a local contact with authority to operate or repair the
proposed BWES as needed and at any time, and the telephone number at which such
contact may be reached on a 24-hour basis. At all times during which the BWES
is in operable condition, the applicant shall have the duty to notify the
Village of any changes to the information required pursuant to this paragraph.
10.   Engineering plans, which must include, without limitation, the
manufacturer's engineering specifications of the turbine, nameplate wattage
capacity, dimensions of the turbine unit, mounting mechanisms, expected load
and expected sound level production.
11.   A site plan, drawn to scale, signed and sealed by a professional engineer
licensed in the state of Illinois, and including, without limitation, the
following:
a.   The location of any overhead or underground power lines and utility
easements; and
b.   The locations and the expected duration of shadow flicker caused by the
BWES facility. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Lot Frontage
10-5-2: Lot Width
10-5-3: Yards
10-5-4: Building Height
10-5-5: Daylight Plane Height Restrictions
10-5-6: Floor Area Ratio
10-5-7: Impervious Surface Coverage
10-5-8: Building Coverage
10-5-9: Accessory Buildings And Structures
10-5-10: Swimming Pools
10-5-11: Home Occupations
10-5-12: Parking
10-5-13: Habitable Space
10-5-14: Private Sales
10-5-15: Accessory Dwelling Units
10-5-16: Subterranean Single-Family Garages
10-5-17: Location Restrictions For Animals
10-5-1: LOT FRONTAGE:
All lots shall front directly upon a public street that has been dedicated in
accordance with the ordinances of the village and that has the full street
width required by the subdivision ordinance of the village. "Directly", as used
in this section, shall mean that the front of the lot must coincide with the
right of way boundary line of an abutting street. Access to a public street
through an alley, easement, or nonpublic road shall not be construed to mean
"direct", as required by this section. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 95-34,
10-10-1995)
10-5-2: LOT WIDTH:
The width of a lot shall be no less than the minimum dimension specified in the
lot width set forth in the regulations applicable in the district in which such
lot is located. The front for any lot shall not be less than the permitted
minimum lot width. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5-3: YARDS:
A.   Front Yard Setback: Subject to the requirements of subsections B and C of
this section and section
10-5-9 of this chapter, no building or structure shall be placed nearer to the
street line than the following distances:
1.   General Requirement: The general requirement for front yard setbacks shall
be as follows:
 
                            C-E  E-1 E-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6
Required front yard setback 100' 50'     30'         20'     15'
 
2.   Exceptions For Certain Interior Lots: The required front yard setback for
the following interior lots shall be as follows:
 
Location Of Interior Lots            Required Front Yard Setback
West side of Birch Road between East
Washington Avenue and East Blodgett  The combined average of the front yard
Avenue                               setbacks for the adjacent interior lots
                                     located on the same side of the street
South side of East Washington Avenue and within 2 lots of the subject lot on
between Evanston Avenue and Moffett  either side
Road

North side of Ravine Avenue between  50 feet
Church Lane and Simpson Avenue
North side of East Prospect Avenue
between Simpson Avenue and Sunrise   30 feet
Avenue
 
3.   Averaging: Where the calculation of a front yard setback requires the
averaging of setbacks for adjacent interior lots as provided in the chart in
subsection A2 of this section, then the required front yard setback for a new
structure on the interior lot shall be calculated from the issuance date of the
building permit for that structure. That calculation shall continue to apply to
the structure and any improvements or additions thereto, regardless of
subsequent changes to the structures and setbacks on other adjacent lots.
4.   Steps: Steps, including handrails, leading to a principal structure: a)
may extend no more than four feet (4') into the required front yard setback; b)
shall not exceed five and one-half feet (5.5') in width; and c) shall not
exceed sixty six inches (66") in height above the finished ground level. (See
section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 5.)
B.   Adjoining Lots: Where a lot on which a front yard setback is required
adjoins a district with a smaller or no front yard setback requirement, the
building on said lot, for a distance of not more than fifty feet (50') from the
district line, shall be required to observe only the average of the front yard
setback requirements of each lot.
C.   Corner Lot Side Yard: Notwithstanding the side yard requirements for
residential districts in articles A through H of this chapter, the corner lot
side yard setbacks set forth in this subsection shall apply to residential
corner lots in the Village.
1.   General Requirement: Corner lot side yard setbacks shall be as indicated
in the table below unless the exception in subsection C2 of this section
applies.
 
                             C-E E-1 E-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5
Corner lot side yard setback 20% of the width of the lot
 
2.   Exception: Corner lots with a side yard adjacent to the front yard of an
adjoining lot shall have a required side yard along the street that is the
lesser of the setback indicated in the table below or the required front yard
setback of the adjoining lot. This shall not apply to corner lots if they are
separated from the adjacent front yard by a ravine, which corner lots shall
have the side yard required under subsection C1 of this section.
 
Corner Lot Width C-E E-1 E-2                 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5
50' or less      20% of the width of the lot 20% of the width of the lot
Between 50' and  20% of the width of the lot 10' + ((lot width - 50') x 0.60)
80'
80' or more      20% of the width of the lot 35% of the width of the lot
 
(Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000; Ord. 2007-5, 4-23-2007;
Ord. 2007-8, 4-23-2007; Ord. 2017-8, 5-22-2017)
10-5-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
A.   Principal Buildings: No principal building shall be erected or altered on
any lot in any residential district so that said building exceeds the maximum
height limitations set forth and established as follows:
 
Width Of Lot Maximum Height
(Feet)       (Feet)
Less than 50 30
50 to 74.9   32
75 to 124.9  34
125 to 174.9 36
175 to 224.9 40
225 or more  44
 
B.   Principal Buildings In Excess Of Thirty Four Feet: Notwithstanding the
maximum height limitations set forth in subsection A of this section, no
principal building shall have a height in excess of thirty four feet (34')
unless one (1) of the following conditions exists:
1.   The principal building is fully equipped with and protected by an
automatic fire suppression system meeting all of the requirements of the
Village Building Code; or
2.   The principal building has a hip, gable, or gambrel roof with a mean
height of less than thirty four feet (34'), as determined in accordance with
section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 7.
C.   Accessory Buildings:
1.   No accessory structure or building shall be erected or altered on any lot
located in the A-A-A-A (E-2), A-A-A (R-1), A-A (R-2), A (R-3), B (R-4), C (R-
5), or D (R-6) residence districts so that said accessory structure or building
exceeds seventeen feet (17') in height, or the height of the principal
building, whichever is less.
2.   No accessory structure or building shall be erected or altered on any lot
located in the country estate residence district (C-E) so that said accessory
structure or building exceeds thirty feet (30') in height; provided, however,
that if the accessory structure or building exceeds seventeen feet (17') in
height, it shall be located no closer than twenty feet (20') to either the rear
or side lot line.
3.   No accessory structure or building shall be erected or altered on any lot
located in the estate residence district (E-1) so that said accessory structure
or building exceeds thirty feet (30') in height; provided, however, that if the
accessory structure or building is greater than seventeen feet (17') in height,
it shall be located no closer than fifteen feet (15') to either the rear or
side lot line.
D.   Permitted Exceptions: The exceptions listed in subsection 10-4-1A of this
title shall be applicable to the height limitations set forth in this section.
(Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 96-15, 5-7-1996)
10-5-5: DAYLIGHT PLANE HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
A.   Applicability: In addition to the general height restrictions set forth in
section
10-5-4 of this chapter, all buildings on any lot in any residential district
shall be subject to, and comply with, the daylight plane height restrictions
set forth and established in this section.
B.   Daylight Plane: Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no
portion of a building on any lot in any residential district shall intercept
either of the planes that begin at points twelve feet (12') directly above the
interior side lot lines and run at forty five degree (45°) angles toward the
interior of any such lot until they reach the maximum height permitted on the
lot as established pursuant to subsection 10-5-4A of this chapter. Measurement
of the twelve foot (12') vertical portion of the daylight plane shall commence
at the average preconstruction grade level that exists along the portion of the
side yard property line adjacent to the primary side wall of the proposed
structure. If a wall or other abrupt change in grade exists along the side yard
property line, the preconstruction grade for calculation of the daylight plane
shall be the lowest of the grades existing on either side of the existing
abrupt change. The height of the sidewall of the structure shall comply with
the daylight plane at all locations down the length of the side yard. Grades
shall not be averaged for determining daylight plane calculations. For purposes
of this section, such areas shall be known as the "daylight plane". See section
10-13-1 of this title, illustrations 8 and 9.
C.   Permitted Encroachments: The following structures and architectural
features shall be permitted to extend into and through the daylight plane, but
only to the following extent:
1.   Roof overhangs and storm gutters may extend into and through the daylight
plane a maximum of two feet (2'). See section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 9.
2.   Dormers, gable roof ends, hip roof ends, shed roof ends, and the upper
segment of gambrel roof ends, or a combination thereof, may extend into and
through the daylight plane; provided, however, that no such extension or
extensions shall be permitted if the dormers, gable roof ends, hip roof ends,
shed roof ends, or the upper segment of gambrel roof ends, or a combination
thereof, is more than twenty feet (20') in total length at the point of
intersection with the daylight plane. No individual dormer width may exceed
eight feet (8') as measured from the exterior framing dimensions of the
vertical edges of the dormers. The minimum clear spacing between dormers shall
be six feet (6'). See section
10-13-1 of this title, illustrations 10 and 11 and 11A.
3.   Architectural features exempted from this Title's definition of building
height may extend into and through the daylight plane. (Ord. 94-2, 2-25-1994;
amd. Ord. 98-6, 2-23-1998; Ord. 2000-11, 7-11-2000; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-5-6: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
A.   Maximum Gross Floor Area: No building or any of its accessory structures
and uses shall be erected, constructed, or altered on any lot in any
residential district if, as a result of such erection, construction, or
alteration, the gross floor area of such lot exceeds the maximum gross floor
area permitted for that lot as determined by the following applicable
computation:
1.   The maximum gross floor area for any lot of less than or equal to nine
thousand (9,000) square feet shall be computed as follows:
         0.4 x lot size in square feet
2.   The maximum gross floor area for any lot of more than nine thousand
(9,000) square feet, but less than or equal to eighteen thousand (18,000)
square feet, shall be computed as follows:
         3,600 + (0.2 x total square feet of lot size in excess of 9,000)
3.   The maximum gross floor area for any lot of more than eighteen thousand
(18,000) square feet shall be computed as follows:
            5,400 + (0.1 x total square feet of lot size in excess of 18,000)
B.   Special Gross Floor Area Calculations And Exceptions: For purposes of
determining the maximum gross floor area permitted for a lot, the following
special calculations and exceptions shall apply:
1.   Underground Structures: Except as otherwise provided in section
10-12-8 of this title, the following shall be included in the calculation of
the gross floor area of a lot:
a.   Basements, Crawl Spaces, And Subterranean Garages:
(1)   For a basement, crawl space, or subterranean garage constructed on or
after January 1, 1950, the total area, in square feet, of all of that portion
of such structure that extends three feet (3') or more from the preexisting or
proposed grade, whichever grade is more restrictive, to the finished first
floor elevation (see section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 19).
(2)   For a basement, crawl space, or subterranean garage constructed before
January 1, 1950, the total area, in square feet, of all of that portion of such
structure that extends five feet (5') or more from the preexisting or proposed
grade, whichever grade is more restrictive, to the finished first floor
elevation (see section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 20). If, however, the principal structure
is structurally altered, enlarged, or replaced to the extent of more than fifty
percent (50%) of the floor area of the principal structure existing at the time
of such alteration, enlargement, or replacement, the special gross floor area
exception contained in this subsection B1a(2) shall no longer apply.
b.   Expanded Window Well: The total area, in square feet of the expanded
window well, calculated by taking the ratio of the length of the exposed
basement wall within the window well that is three feet (3') or more in height
(measured from the bottom of the well to the finished first floor elevation) to
the total perimeter of the foundation of the structure, and multiplying that
result by the total floor area of the basement and/or crawl space (see section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 20).
c.   Walkout Basement Stairwell: The total area, in square feet, of the walkout
basement stairwell, calculated by taking the ratio of the length of the exposed
basement wall within the basement stairwell that is three feet (3') or more in
height (measured down from the first floor elevation) to the total perimeter of
the foundation of the structure, and multiplying that result by the total floor
area of the basement and/or crawl space (see section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 20).
2.   Accessory Structures: For any conforming accessory structure within the
rear twenty five percent (25%) of the lot on which it is located or entirely
within the rear twenty seven feet (27') of any such lot, whichever is greater
(the "qualified accessory structure"), the following special regulations shall
apply to determine the gross floor area of the lot. The provisions of this
subsection B2 shall not apply to through lots. For purposes of this subsection
B2 only, a lot that is both a corner lot and a through lot shall be considered
a through lot.
a.   Lots Six Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Square Feet And Less: The first four
hundred forty (440) square feet of any qualified accessory structure on any lot
is six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet or less in total area
shall not be included in the gross floor area of the lot on which such
structure is located.
b.   Lots Greater Than Six Thousand Two Hundred Fifty To Eight Thousand Seven
Hundred Fifty Square Feet: For any lot with an area greater than six thousand
two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet but less than or equal to eight thousand
seven hundred fifty (8,750) square feet, the amount of the qualified accessory
structure that shall not be included in the gross floor area of the lot on
which such structure is located shall be determined according to the following
formula:
[440 - ((lot size - 6,250) x 0.176 square feet)]
c.   Lots Greater Than Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Square Feet: The
gross floor area of any accessory structure on any lot in excess of eight
thousand seven hundred fifty (8,750) square feet shall be determined pursuant
to the otherwise applicable provisions of this title.
d.   Drainage Plan Approval:
(1)   No qualified accessory structure or portion thereof shall be excluded
from the gross floor area of a lot pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection, unless in compliance with the following conditions:
(A)   Submittal to and subsequent approval by the village engineer of a
drainage plan demonstrating that all stormwater runoff from the garage roof and
driveway can either flow overland directly to a public right of way without
flowing across an adjacent private lot, or flow through a recorded drainage
easement across adjacent private property in order to discharge into a public
right of way; or
(B)   Submittal to and approval by the village engineer of a drainage plan
demonstrating that any portion of stormwater runoff from the garage roof and
driveway, which does not flow directly to a public right of way without flowing
across an adjacent private lot(s), or does not flow through a recorded drainage
easement, will be directed to a stormwater detention facility within the limits
of the subject lot; such detention facility shall be capable of providing
storage for the volume of rainfall generated by the maximum anticipated twelve
(12) hour duration, 5-year rain event per the latest revision of IDNR/OWR
bulletin 70, and subsequent pumped discharge to a public right of way in a
manner acceptable to the village engineer.
(2)   Implementation of a stormwater detention facility shall include
requirements recorded against the lot that the detention facility be maintained
in operating condition at all times.
3.   Stoops And Decks: That portion of stoops and decks in the rear or side
yard with: a) a floor elevation of less than thirty inches (30") above grade;
b) open type railings or surrounding appurtenances less than forty two inches
(42") in height, where the visibility at right angles to the surface is not
reduced by more than thirty percent (30%), or no railings or surrounding
appurtenances; and c) an area of less than three and one-half percent (3.5%) of
the total area of the lot on which the stoop or deck is located, shall not be
included in the gross floor area of the lot. Such exclusion shall also include
the steps, if any, leading to any such stoop or deck that satisfies the
requirements of this subsection.
4.   Covered Outdoor Porches, Open Entryways, Open Covered Walks And Uncovered
Exterior Balconies:
a.   A portion of covered outdoor porches, open entryways, open covered walks,
and uncovered exterior balconies may be excluded from the gross floor area of a
lot; provided, that the total exclusion for all such structures shall not
exceed the lesser of: 1) three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the total lot
area; or 2) five hundred (500) square feet; and provided further, that:
(1)   The covered outdoor porch:
(A)   Is constructed with no railings or with open railings that are no more
than forty two inches (42") in height, where the visibility at right angles to
the surface of the open railings is not reduced by more than thirty percent
(30%). In addition, the area above the open railings, or where there are no
railings, the area above the floor, shall be open except for: 1) screens; 2)
necessary primary vertical structure elements that do not exceed twelve percent
(12%) of the area above the open railings; and 3) decorative, architectural
lattice elements located along the top eighteen inches (18") of the covered
open porch (see section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 18); and
(B)   Has no floor area or exterior balcony located directly above such porch
(see section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 12).
(2)   The uncovered exterior balcony is constructed with open railings that are
no more than forty two inches (42") in height, where the visibility at right
angles to the surface is not reduced by more than thirty percent (30%) (see
section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 18).
b.   Such exclusion shall also include the steps, if any, leading to any such
covered outdoor porch, open entryway, or open covered walk that satisfies the
requirements of this subsection.
5.   Space In Excess Of Ten Feet In Height: The floor area of any space with a
floor to ceiling height in excess of ten feet (10') shall be increased by ten
percent (10%) for each foot, or fraction thereof, in excess of ten feet (10').
For purposes of this subsection, in the case of a sloping or slanting ceiling,
only that area under a plane that is: a) parallel to, and most distant from,
the floor below it; and b) at right angles with the adjacent exterior wall or
walls, shall be included in the additional floor area calculation. (See section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 13.)
6.   Undereaves: The footprint of eaves areas under sloping roofs that extend
no more than two feet (2') from any adjacent exterior wall shall not be
included in the gross floor area of the lot.
7.   Attics: Only that portion of an attic floor that: a) has a floor to
ceiling height equal to or greater than six feet (6'); and b) is determined by
the village building commissioner to have been designed to be readily utilized
for, or readily converted to, eating, sleeping, or living areas, shall be
included in the gross floor area of the lot. In making such determination, the
building commissioner shall consider such factors as, without limitation, the
method of access and emergency egress, natural light and ventilation provided
for such space, and the size of such space.
8.   Flag Lots: The "pole" portion of any flag lot shall not be included in the
lot size calculation used to determine the maximum permitted floor area. On
lots other than flag lots that consist of: a) a primary mass at least fifty
percent (50%) of the total area of the lot and set back from the street
frontage access ("the primary portion"); and b) a narrow access corridor with a
width of no more than fifty feet (50') wide and a depth to width ratio of no
more than three to one (3:1), only the primary portion shall be included in the
lot size calculation to determine the maximum permitted floor area. (Ord. 94-2,
2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 98-6, 2-23-1998; Ord. 2000-11, 7-11-2000; Ord. 2005-1, 1-
10-2005)
10-5-7: IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
A.   Total Impervious Surface Limitation: Subject to the limitations set forth
in subsection B of this section, the total amount of impervious surfaces on any
lot in any residential district shall not exceed the percentages of the total
area of the lot as set forth in the applicable subsection below:
1.   For lots in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 residence districts:
 
Width Of Lot  Maximum Percentage
Less than 50' 60%
              50% + [(75' - the actual width of the lot in feet) x 0.4]
50' to 75'    Example: Lot width of 65':
              (75 - 65 = 10) (10 * 0.4 = 4) (4 + 50% = 54%)
More than 75' 50%
 
2.   For lots in E-2, E-1, and C-E residence districts:
 
Area Of Lot                      Maximum Percentage
Less than 12,000 sq. ft.         50%
12,000 sq. ft. to 43,560 sq. ft. 40% + [(43,560 sq. ft. - lot size) x 0.000317]
More than 43,560 sq. ft.         40%
 
B.   Required Front Yard Setback Impervious Surface Limitation: The total
amount of impervious surfaces in the required front yard setback of any lot in
any residence district shall not exceed the following percentages of total area
of the required front yard of the lot:
 
Width Of Lot  Maximum Percentage
Less than 25' 75%
25' to 49'    45% + [(50' - lot width) x 1.2]
50'           45%
51' to 99'    35% + [(100' - lot width) x 0.2]
100' or more  35%
 
(Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5-8: BUILDING COVERAGE:
A.   Maximum Coverage: The total coverage area of all buildings and accessory
structures on any lot in any residential district shall not exceed the
following percentage of the total area of the lot:
Zoning District Maximum Building Coverage (Percent)
Zoning District      Maximum Building Coverage (Percent)
Country estate (C-E) 20
Estate (E-1)         20
A-A-A-A (E-2)        20
A-A-A (R-1)          30
A-A (R-2)            30
A (R-3)              30
B (R-4)              30
C (R-5)              30
 
B.   Building Overhangs: The footprint of any portion of a building that
extends from any adjacent exterior wall shall be included in the maximum
building coverage calculation; provided, however, that the footprint of eaves
areas under sloping roofs that extend no more than two feet (2') from any
adjacent exterior wall (including, without limitation, the exterior wall of a
building overhang) shall not be included in the maximum building coverage
calculation.
C.   Special Exclusions:
1.   Certain Stoops And Decks: Stoops and decks with: a) a floor elevation of
less than thirty inches (30") above grade; b) open type railings or surrounding
appurtenances less than forty two inches (42") in height, where the visibility
at right angles to the surface is not reduced by more than thirty percent
(30%), or no railings or surrounding appurtenances; and c) an area of less than
three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the total area of the lot on which the
stoop or deck is located, shall not be included in the maximum building
coverage calculation. Such exclusion shall also include the steps, if any,
leading to any such stoop or deck that satisfies the requirements of this
subsection C1.
2.   Certain Accessory Structures: The first three hundred thirty (330) square
feet of any accessory structure that is located entirely in the rear twenty
five percent (25%) of any lot other than a through lot, or located entirely
within the rear twenty seven feet (27') of any lot other than a through lot,
whichever is greater, shall not be included in the building coverage of the
lot. For the purposes of this section only, a lot that is both a corner lot and
a through lot shall be considered a through lot.
D.   Flag Lots: The "pole" portion of any flag lot shall not be included in the
lot size calculation used to determine the maximum permitted building coverage.
See section
10-13-1, illustration 2A of this title. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 98-6,
2-23-1998)
10-5-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
A.   No accessory building or structure shall be permitted in any required
front yard; provided, however, that flagpoles may be located not less than ten
feet (10') from the front and side lot lines, and basketball hoops and
backboards not exceeding thirteen feet (13') in height may be located so that
no portion of such structure (including the backboard) extends beyond the front
lot line or within five feet (5') of the side lot line.
B.   Where an accessory building or structure is structurally attached to a
principal building, the accessory structure shall be subject to, and must
comply with, all regulations of this title applicable to the principal
building. An accessory building connected to a principal building via an open
walled covered walkway shall be considered to be structurally attached to the
principal building. For purposes of this subsection, a walkway shall be deemed
to be "covered" if any type of building or structural support materials of any
kind connect the upper half of the vertical elements of the walkway.
C.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, an accessory building
or structure shall not be located less than five feet (5') from any interior
lot line or not less than five feet (5') from the rear lot line. On a corner
lot, along a street line that is determined to be the side of the lot,
accessory buildings and structures shall not be located less than twenty
percent (20%) of the width of the lot to such street line, or less than the
applicable required front yard setback or required corner lot side yard setback
for a principal structure or building on the adjoining lot along the same
street line, whichever distance is greater.
D.   As noted in subsection C of this section, the following exceptions apply:
a.   An accessory building or structure located, in whole or in part, along
that portion of the rear or side lot line that forms part of the front half of
the side lot line of an adjacent lot shall not be located less than ten feet
(10') from the rear or side lot line of the lot on which any such accessory
building or structure is located; provided, however, that this restriction
shall not apply to any accessory building or structure that is erected eighty
feet (80') or more from any street bounding the block; and provided further,
that in the C (R-5), B (R-4), and A (R-3) Residence Districts, an accessory
building or structure, with neither a width nor depth exceeding ten feet (10'),
nor a height exceeding ten feet (10'), may, if located entirely in the required
rear yard, extend to within two and one-half feet (2.5') of the rear lot line
and to within two and one-half feet (2.5') of an interior side lot line;
provided, that the portions of such lot lines along which any such accessory
building or structure, or any part thereof, is located, does not form the front
half of an adjacent lot, and does not form the half of the lot closest to the
side street for a corner lot or an adjacent corner lot. (See section
10-13-1, illustration 6A of this title.)
b.   An accessory building or structure that is located on a residentially
zoned lot with an area of six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet or
less and width of fifty feet (50') or less, may extend to within two and one-
half feet (2.5') of the rear or side property lines.
E.   An accessory building or structure that is considered to be a garage,
shed, greenhouse, or any other type of miscellaneous enclosed building shall
not be located less than five feet (5') from any principal building, or from
any structure attached to a principal building, or less than three feet (3')
from any deck attached to a principal building or structure, provided such deck
is of a type specified in subsection
10-5-6B3 of this chapter.
F.   An accessory building shall not be erected or used prior to the
construction and use of the principal building. An accessory building or use
may be maintained for a period no greater than one year after the date that the
principal building is demolished or the principal use in the principal building
is ceased, unless a building permit is issued and construction is actually
begun within that one year period and is thereafter diligently pursued to
completion, or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued and a use commenced
within that period.
Where an accessory structure or use is to be maintained in the absence of a
principal structure or use under this subsection, the Building Commissioner may
require the property owner to execute a covenant, in a form provided by the
Village, providing that any accessory structures must be removed at the owner's
expense at the expiration of this allowance or else may be removed by the
Village at the owner's expense. The covenant shall further provide that any
fees owed to the Village pursuant to the covenant that have not been paid
within thirty (30) days following the mailing of a written demand for payment
may be imposed as a lien against the property and may be foreclosed in the
manner provided for mortgages or mechanics' liens under Illinois law.
G.   Accessory structures or buildings erected or altered on any lot in any
zoning district that exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet in total floor
area shall be subject to the principal structure setback requirements for such
zoning district.
H.   No garage hereafter erected on any lot located in the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4,
or R-5 Residence District shall have vehicular doors that extend along the
front of the lot for a distance greater than fifty percent (50%) of the width
of the principal building, or eighteen feet (18'), whichever is less. (Ord.
2016-13, 5-9-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-2, 1-10-2022; Ord. 2025-23, 7-28-2025)
10-5-10: SWIMMING POOLS:
Swimming pools located in a residential district shall be subject to the
following regulations:
A.   Location:
1.   In-Ground Swimming Pools: The water containment area of an in-ground
swimming pool (as measured from the exterior face), as well as any above ground
accessory equipment to the swimming pool, including, without limitation,
filters, pumps, or heaters, shall not be located:
a.   In the front yard of a lot;
b.   Within ten feet (10') of any lot line;
c.   Within any required minimum corner lot side yard setback;
d.   Within ten feet (10') of a principal structure; or
e.   Within the minimum setbacks required by section
10-12-3 of this title, if applicable.
2.   Above-Ground Swimming Pools: The water containment area of an above-ground
swimming pool (as measured from the exterior face), as well as any above ground
accessory equipment to the swimming pool, including, without limitation,
filters, pumps, or heaters, shall not be located:
a.   In the front yard of a lot;
b.   Within a distance of any lot line of the sum of ten feet (10') plus one
foot (1') for every foot of height of the above-ground swimming pool;
c.   Within any required minimum corner lot side yard setback;
d.   Within ten feet (10') of a principal structure; or
e.   Within the minimum setbacks required by section
10-12-3 of this title, if applicable.
B.   Water Containment Area Included In Calculations: The total square footage
of the water containment portion of a swimming pool, as measured from the
exterior face of the water containment portion of the swimming pool walls,
shall be included in calculating the impervious surface coverage of the
property pursuant to section
10-5-7 of this chapter. The total square footage of the water containment
portion of an above-ground swimming pool, as measured from the exterior face of
the water containment portion of the swimming pool walls, shall also be
included in calculating the gross floor area and total lot coverage area
restrictions of the property pursuant to sections
10-5-6 and
10-5-8, respectively, of this chapter.
C.   Use Restrictions:
1.   Swimming pools accessory to a single-family dwelling, where used solely by
the residents of the lot on which they are located or their invited guests, are
a permitted accessory use.
2.   Swimming pools shall be permitted only upon the issuance of a special use
permit if a swimming pool is intended for use by: a) members and guests of a
not for profit club or organization; or b) a group of residents of a multiple-
family building, street or block, subdivision, neighborhood, or other specific
and defined area of residences. (Ord. 2018-22, 10-22-2018)
10-5-11: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
A.   Authorization: Subject to the limitations set forth in this section, any
"home occupation" (as defined in subsection B of this section) shall be
permitted in any principal single-family dwelling, accessory dwelling unit, or
permitted accessory structure (collectively, "single-family dwelling").
B.   Definition: "Home occupation" shall mean a business, profession,
occupation, or trade that:
1.   Is conducted for gain or support by a full time occupant of a single-
family dwelling;
2.   Is incidental and secondary to the principal use of a single-family
dwelling for dwelling purposes;
3.   Does not change the essential residential character of a single-family
dwelling or the surrounding area; and
4.   Is not subject to the special use requirements of, or a special use permit
granted by, the Village pursuant to, subsection
10-2C-3 F of this title.
C.   Employee Limitations:
1.   The owner or operator of every home occupation shall be domiciled in the
single-family dwelling where such home occupation is conducted.
2.   No more than four (4) employees who are not domiciled in the single-family
dwelling where a home occupation is conducted shall be present in connection
with, or otherwise participate in the operation of, a home occupation at any
one time.
D.   Structural Limitations: No alteration shall be made to a single-family
dwelling where a home occupation is conducted that would change its residential
character as a single- family dwelling, including specifically, but without
limitation, the enlargement of public utility services beyond that customarily
required for residential use.
E.   Operational Limitations:
1.   Every home occupation shall be conducted wholly within a principal single-
family dwelling; provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply to a
daycare home operated as a home occupation.
2.   No stock in trade shall, on a regular basis, be publicly displayed or sold
from within the single-family dwelling in which any home occupation is located.
3.   No more than four (4) individual clients, customers, or service or
delivery personnel associated with the home occupation located in any single-
family dwelling shall visit or occupy such single-family dwelling at any one
time; provided, however, that the attendance of up to six (6) children at any
one time at a daycare home operated as a home occupation, including the
children domiciled at any such daycare home, shall not be prohibited by this
subsection E3.
4.   No mechanical, electrical, or other equipment that produces noise,
electrical or magnetic interference, vibration, heat, glare, emissions, odor,
or radiation outside the single-family dwelling that is greater or more
frequent than that typical of equipment used in connection with residential
occupancy shall be used in connection with any home occupation.
5.   No outdoor storage shall be allowed in connection with any home
occupation.
6.   No refuse in excess of the amount allowable for regular residential pick
up shall be generated by any home occupation.
7.   There shall be provided and maintained on the lot on which any home
occupation is conducted adequate space for parking or housing any and all
vehicles required pursuant to the applicable parking requirements for single-
family dwellings set forth in section
10-5-12 of this chapter. In addition, vehicles used in connection with any home
occupation shall be subject to the requirements of title 6, chapter 7 of this
Code.
F.   Traffic Limitations: No home occupation shall generate more vehicular or
pedestrian traffic than is typical of single-family dwellings in the area.
G.   Nuisance Causing Activities: In addition to the specific limitations set
forth in subsections A though F of this section, no home occupation shall:
1.   Cause or create any nuisance;
2.   Cause or create any substantial or undue adverse impact on any adjacent
property or the character of the area;
3.   Threaten the public health, safety, or general welfare;
4.   Be noxious, offensive, or hazardous; or
5.   Interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of adjacent residential
properties.
H.   Licensing Requirements: Every home occupation shall be subject to
applicable business licensing and inspection requirements, and shall comply
with all applicable federal, state of Illinois, and local laws and regulations,
including specifically, but without limitation, obtaining, maintaining, and
complying with regulations applicable to any required federal, state of
Illinois, or local permit. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
establish, create, or impose any new license or permit fees for home
occupations.
I.   Existing Home Occupations: All home occupations in the village shall
comply with the regulations set forth herein as well as all other applicable
provisions of law ("requirements of law"); provided, however, that those home
occupations in existence as of September 8, 1997, being the effective date of
this section (the "effective date"), that do not meet the requirements of law
may continue in operation for up to two (2) years after the effective date, at
which time, the home occupation must comply with the requirements of law or it
must be terminated. (Ord. 97-22, 9-8-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-2, 1-10-2022; Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-5-12: PARKING:
A.   Single-Family Lots: For every single-family dwelling erected after July
11, 2000, there shall be provided and maintained within the limits of the same
lot adequate space for parking or housing two (2) automobiles. The portion of a
driveway in the public right of way adjacent to a lot shall not be considered
for purposes of complying with the first sentence of this subsection. Driveway
widths, exclusive of returns at the curb line and street edge, shall not exceed
twenty feet (20') within any portion of the public right of way. Circular
driveways shall be permitted; provided, however, that the portion of the
circular driveway parallel to the public right of way shall not be constructed
or located on any portion of the public right of way.
B.   Multi-Family Lots: For every multiple-family dwelling or other structure
containing dwelling units hereafter erected or structurally altered, there
shall be provided and maintained on the side yard or rear yard of the lot upon
which such building is located adequate space for parking or housing two (2)
motor vehicles for each dwelling unit in the structure; provided, however, that
no such parking spaces shall be permitted on a corner lot in either the rear or
side yard that adjoins a public highway or street. Plans for the erection or
alteration of any multiple-family dwelling or other structure containing
dwelling units shall show thereon, in addition to any other required data or
information, a survey of the premises on which such buildings are proposed to
be erected or altered. The required survey shall also show the location of the
building lines and parking or housing areas with reference to the lot lines,
and the location of the parking or housing areas in sufficient detail to
establish that space will be provided not only for parking and housing the
required number of motor vehicles, but also for safety and conveniently
maneuvering such motor vehicles into and out of the parking or housing areas.
C.   Accessory Dwelling Units: For the purposes of this Section, an accessory
dwelling unit is not a dwelling. The minimum parking requirement for accessory
dwelling units shall be as provided in Section
10-5-15. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2000-11, 7-11-2000; 2009 Code; Ord.
2022-2, 1-10-2022)
10-5-13: HABITABLE SPACE:
A.   Single-Family Dwellings: Single-family dwellings erected, converted, or
reconstructed after February 15, 1994, shall have one living room of not less
than one hundred eighty (180) square feet, and every room used for sleeping
purposes shall have an area of not less than one hundred (100) square feet. The
combined area of all habitable rooms in single- family dwellings erected,
converted, or reconstructed after February 15, 1994, shall not be less than the
minimum permitted area as follows:
1.   One thousand four hundred (1,400) square feet in the country estate (C-E),
estate (E-1), and A-A-A-A (E-2) residence districts.
2.   One thousand three hundred (1,300) square feet in the A-A-A residence
district (R-1).
3.   One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet in the A-A residence district
(R-2).
4.   One thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet in A residence district (R-
3).
5.   One thousand fifty (1,050) square feet in the B (R-4), C (R-5), and D (R-
6) residence districts.
B.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: In all multiple-family dwellings erected,
converted, or reconstructed after February 15, 1994, the combined area of all
habitable rooms shall be not less than one thousand fifty (1,050) square feet
for each dwelling unit.
C.   Accessory Dwelling Units: The minimum permitted area for accessory
dwelling units shall be as provided in Section
10-5-15. No portion of an accessory dwelling unit may be used to satisfy the
requirements of this Section. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-
2000; 2009 Code; Ord. 2022-2, 1-10-2022)
10-5-14: PRIVATE SALES:
A.   Permit Required: Persons seeking to conduct a private sale must obtain a
permit from the village no later than forty eight (48) hours prior to
conducting the sale. The village administrator or his designee may, in his sole
discretion, place conditions on the issuance of the permit including, without
limitation, parking restrictions and other conditions concerning public safety
and the impact of the sale on neighboring properties and residents. The persons
conducting the sale are responsible for complying with the terms and conditions
of the sale permit.
B.   Time And Duration Limits:
1.   Times Of Sales: Private sales are permitted only during the following
times: Monday through Friday (7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.), Saturday (8:00 A.M. to
6:00 P.M.) and Sunday (9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.).
2.   Duration Of Sales: Private sales must be limited in duration to a period
not to exceed three (3) consecutive days, and no more than two (2) such sales
may be conducted from the same location in any twelve (12) month period. (Ord.
2011-17, 9-26-2011)
10-5-15: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to authorize the creation and use
of accessory dwelling units that provide housing choices for Village residents
and support the Village's existing, high-quality residential neighborhoods.
This Section provides for a streamlined public review of accessory dwelling
units in order to maximize their compatibility with these existing
neighborhoods.
B.   Form. An accessory dwelling unit may be located within a designated area
within the principal structure (such as a basement), attached to the principal
structure, or be a freestanding accessory structure.
C.   Number. Each zoning lot used for a single-family dwelling may have only
one accessory dwelling unit subject to the conditions and restrictions of this
Section.
D.   Pre-Application Workshop Required. Prior to applying for a special use
permit to authorize an accessory dwelling unit, an applicant must appear at a
meeting of the Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals for a pre-
application workshop to discuss with Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals the proposed accessory dwelling unit.
E.   Special Use Process for Accessory Dwelling Units. An application for a
special use permit to authorize an accessory dwelling unit is subject to the
rebuttable presumption that the application satisfies the standards for a
special use permit set forth in Section
10-2C-10 E., but only where the PCZBA and the Village Board find that the
accessory dwelling unit is located and scaled in such a manner as to best:
1.   Provide sufficient distance between the accessory dwelling unit and any
dwellings on adjacent properties;
2.   Provide sufficient privacy to the occupants of both the accessory dwelling
unit and any adjacent residential properties;
3.   Minimize the visual impact of the accessory dwelling unit into surrounding
residential properties and the streetscape, including by minimizing the
appearance of the entry doors to the ADU from the street; and
4.   Result in an accessory dwelling unit that is clearly accessory and
subordinate to the principal dwelling unit. In evaluating this standard, the
following guidelines typically indicate an accessory and subordinate use:
a.   The presence of two or fewer bedrooms in the accessory dwelling unit;
b.   Conformance with the maximum size restrictions provided in this Section;
and
c.   The arrangement or provision of utilities shall not affect this
determination.
The foregoing standards shall be evaluated relative to the impacts that would
be reasonably expected from adding a conforming residential addition to the
principal structure that does not serve as an accessory dwelling unit. The
foregoing standards are not intended to serve as a mechanism for review of the
architectural design, materials, or quality of proposed accessory dwelling
units.
F.   Size Restrictions.
1.   Minimum. The combined area of all habitable rooms of the accessory
dwelling unit shall not be smaller than two hundred and twenty (220) square
feet.
2.   Maximum. The gross floor area of the accessory dwelling unit, and any
accessory structure that houses a detached accessory dwelling unit, shall be no
larger than:
a.   Thirty-five (35) percent of the gross floor area of the principal
structure, exclusive of any area used for the accessory dwelling unit;
b.   Eight hundred (800) square feet of gross floor area, except in the “C-E”
Country Estate District; and
c.   One thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of gross floor area in the
“C-E” Country Estate District.
Any reductions to gross floor area provided in subsection
10-5-6(B) do not apply to the foregoing requirements, except that undereaves
and any stoops, steps, and porches leading to the accessory dwelling unit shall
not be counted in measuring the gross floor area of the accessory dwelling
unit.
G.   Parking Requirements. In addition to any required parking pursuant to
Section
10-5-12, an accessory dwelling unit shall provide adequate space to park or
house at least one automobile.
H.   Additional Bulk Regulations for Detached Units. In addition to any bulk
requirements that are applicable in the relevant zoning district, the following
further restrictions apply to detached accessory dwelling units:
1.   Setbacks. A detached accessory dwelling unit shall be subject to all yard
and setback requirements applicable to the principal structure on the same
zoning lot. Where there is a conflict between the requirements applicable to a
principal structure and an accessory structure, the more restrictive provision
shall control.
2.   Prohibition in Street Yards. A detached accessory dwelling unit shall not
be located between the principal building and the lot line(s) abutting any
contiguous public street, public right-of-way, or private street for the full
width of the lot; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to detached
accessory dwelling units located between the principal building and an alley.
This includes, but is not limited to, the full depth of front yards, corner lot
side yards, and both the front and rear yards of through lots. See Section
10-13-1, illustration 1.
3.   Height. The height of a detached accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed
the lesser of:
a.   The height limitations in the applicable zoning district; and
b.   The height of the principal structure on the zoning lot.
I.   Ownership and Rental.
1.   Common Ownership Required. An accessory dwelling unit must be kept in
common ownership with the principal dwelling on the zoning lot.
2.   Short Term Rentals Prohibited. Pursuant to Section 10-4-5 of this Code,
accessory dwelling units may not be used as short-term rentals.
3.   Regulations for All Other Rentals. Where the principal dwelling is leased
or not occupied by the owner, either:
a.   The accessory dwelling unit must be occupied by the owner; or
b.   The occupants of the principal and accessory dwelling unit must constitute
a single family.
J.   Existing Non-Conformities.
1.   Existing Accessory Dwelling Units Grandfathered. Accessory dwelling units
lawfully constructed prior to January 10, 2022 may continue to be used,
maintained, and occupied notwithstanding any nonconformity with subsections C,
F, G, or H of this Section or the absence of a special use permit.
2.   Conversion of Non-Conforming Structures. Nothing shall prohibit a
structure existing as of January 10, 2022, including a legally non-conforming
structure, from being converted for use to an accessory dwelling unit provided
that the conversion complies with this Section and does not increase the degree
of any existing non-conformity with any Bulk Regulation. The creation of an
accessory dwelling unit by conversion must be authorized by a special use
permit as provided in this Section.
K.   Special Rules for Abandonment. Notwithstanding the abandonment provisions
of Section
10-8-2(C)(9), any legally non-conforming or special use of an accessory
dwelling unit shall not be deemed abandoned until it is discontinued for a
period of:
1.   Nine consecutive months; or
2.   A cumulative total of eighteen (18) months during any three-year period.
(Ord. 2022-2, 1-10-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-5-16: SUBTERRANEAN SINGLE-FAMILY GARAGES:
Garages shall be permitted to be constructed below the first floor of a single-
family dwelling, provided, however, that subterranean single-family garages
shall be subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
A.   Safety Guard: Where a retaining wall is used as part or alongside of a
driveway entrance to a subterranean single-family garage, the owner shall
provide guards to prevent falls where the difference in elevation exceeds 30
inches. The guard shall be constructed to the applicable standards provided in
the International Residential Code, as adopted in Title 9, Chapter 2 of this
Code. This requirement may be modified or waived where landscape screening or
topography make part of or an entire safety guard unnecessary, but only upon
both the (i) approval of the Village Board, and (ii) the Building Commissioner
in accordance with any applicable procedures set forth in Title 9, Chapter 2 of
this Code.
B.   Driveway Setback: No portion of the driveway entrance to any subterranean
single-family garage shall be located within five feet of any side or rear lot
line.
C.   Stormwater Drainage: Stormwater shall discharge directly from the
subterranean single-family garage and driveway entrance into a public storm
sewer system.
D.   Engineer Certification: Applications for approval of subterranean single-
family garages must be accompanied by a stamped certification from a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Illinois stating that the
proposed subterranean single-family garage has been designed to withstand a
100-year flood event.
E.   Transferee Assumption of Liability: Prior to any transfer of ownership of
a property upon which a subterranean single-family garage has been constructed,
the buyer must execute a transferee assumption agreement in a form acceptable
to the Village Attorney releasing the Village from any liability for and
arising from the subterranean single-family garage.
F.   Additional Conditions: A subterranean single-family garage may be subject
to such additional regulations as the Village Board deems necessary, including,
without limitation, regulations pertaining to landscaping, screening, and
stormwater drainage. (Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-5-17: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS FOR ANIMALS:
A.    Horses: It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor or house any horse in any
place in the village that is:
1.    Within fifty feet (50') of any dwelling or building used for human
habitation;
2.   On any lot or parcel of land that is less than five (5) acres in size; or
3.   On any lot or parcel of land of any size where the same presents a health
hazard or nuisance of any kind.
B.   Other Animals: It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, or house any sheep,
goat, swine, cattle, or poultry (excluding accessory animal licensed chickens)
in any place in the village that is:
1.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any dwelling or building used for human
habitation;
2.   On any lot or parcel of land that is less than ten (10) acres in size;
3.   Within one hundred feet (100') of the lot line of any adjacent parcel of
real estate; or
4.   On any lot or parcel of land of any size where the same presents a health
hazard or nuisance of any kind.
C.   Exceptions: The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to:
1.   Domestic household pets that are kept indoors in the residence or garage
of the owner thereof at all times, and that do not otherwise constitute or
create a nuisance or health hazard and that are not raised or kept for monetary
gain or benefit of any kind; or,
2.   Keeping of chickens or bees as authorized by an accessory animal license
issued pursuant to Article D of Chapter 9 of the Village Code. (Ord. 2025-21,
7-14-2025)
ARTICLE A. COUNTRY ESTATE RESIDENCE DISTRICT (C-E)
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Permitted Uses
10-5A-2: Reserved
10-5A-3: Building Height
10-5A-4: Yards
10-5A-5: Lot Area And Width
10-5A-1: PERMITTED USES:
A.   Uses; Applicable Conditions: No building or lot shall be used within the
country estate residence district (C-E) for any purpose other than those
permitted and special uses identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title.
B.   Conditions Specific To Certain Permitted Uses: The following permitted
uses within the country estate residence district (C-E) are subject to the
following conditions:
Country club golf courses, including the related clubhouse, pro shop,
restaurant, and other accessory structures, are permitted only on tracts of
land of one hundred twenty (120) acres or more in area. Such tract must be held
in common ownership, but all parts of a tract satisfying this minimum acreage
requirement qualify even where a portion of the tract lies outside the
corporate limits of the Village.
Farming operations, including the related accessory and farmhouse buildings
incidental to those farming operations, are permitted only on tracts of land of
one hundred twenty (120) acres or more in area.
Temporary buildings and uses necessary for development or construction purposes
are permitted for a period not to exceed one year. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010;
amd. Ord. 2021-6, 3-8-2021)
10-5A-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5A-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the maximum height
limitations set forth in sections
10-5-4 and
10-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5A-4: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
forty feet (40'), except where the rear yard is located on Lake Michigan, in
which case, a minimum of one hundred feet (100') shall be required. This
setback requirement on Lake Michigan does not imply that the village believes
that such structures will be safe from erosion of the beach or bluffs on which
such structures are placed. Nothing contained herein shall create any liability
on the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof, for any damage
that results from reliance on this title or on any administrative decisions
made lawfully hereunder relating to the distance for the rear yard setback on
Lake Michigan.
B.   Side Yards: Each side yard on a lot shall have a width of not less than
ten percent (10%) of the total width of the lot. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5A-5: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet, nor a width of less than two
hundred feet (200'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE B. ESTATE RESIDENCE DISTRICT (E-1)
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Permitted Uses; Conditions
10-5B-2: Reserved
10-5B-3: Building Height
10-5B-4: Yards
10-5B-5: Lot Area And Width
10-5B-1: PERMITTED USES; CONDITIONS:
A.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the estate
residence district (E-1) for any purpose except those permitted and special
uses identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title.
B.   Conditions Specific To Certain Permitted Uses: The following permitted
uses are subject to the following conditions:
Temporary buildings and uses necessary for development or construction purposes
are permitted for a period not to exceed one year. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5B-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5B-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the maximum height
limitations set forth in sections
10-5-4 and
10-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5B-4: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
thirty feet (30').
B.   Side Yards: Each side yard on a lot shall have a width of not less than
ten percent (10%) of the total width of the lot. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5B-5: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than one and one-half (11/2) acres (65,340 square feet), nor a width of less
than one hundred fifty feet (150'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE C. A-A-A-A RESIDENCE DISTRICT (E-2)
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Regulations And Permitted Uses Generally
10-5C-2: Lot Area And Width
10-5C-1: REGULATIONS AND PERMITTED USES GENERALLY:
A.   Regulations Generally: The A-A-A-A residence district (E-2) regulations
shall be identical with the estate residence district (E-1) regulations, with
the exception of the provisions of this article.
B.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the A-A-A-
A residence district (E-2) for any purpose except those permitted and special
uses identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5C-2: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than one acre (43,560 square feet), nor a width of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE D. A-A-A RESIDENCE DISTRICT (R-1)
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Regulations And Permitted Uses Generally
10-5D-2: Lot Area And Width
10-5D-1: REGULATIONS AND PERMITTED USES GENERALLY:
A.   Regulations Generally: The A-A-A residence district (R-1) regulations
shall be identical with the estate residence district (E-1) regulations, with
the exception of the provisions of this article.
B.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the A-A-
A residence district (R-1) for any purpose except those permitted and special
uses identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5D-2: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, nor a width of less than one hundred
feet (100'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE E. A-A RESIDENCE DISTRICT (R-2)
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Regulations And Permitted Uses Generally
10-5E-2: Yards
10-5E-3: Lot Area And Width
10-5E-1: REGULATIONS AND PERMITTED USES GENERALLY:
A.   Regulations Generally: The A-A residence district (R-2) regulations shall
be identical with the estate residence district (E-1) regulations, with the
exception of the provisions of this article.
B.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the A-A residence
district (R-2) for any purpose except those permitted and special uses
identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5E-2: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the depth of the lot, provided such rear yard shall
not be less than ten feet (10') in depth and need not exceed twenty five feet
(25') in depth.
B.   Side Yards:
1.   Combined Side Yards: The minimum total width of both side yards on a lot
shall be twenty percent (20%) of the total width of the lot.
2.   Individual Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard on a lot shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total width of the lot, except as otherwise
provided in subsection B3 of this section.
3.   Side Yards For Certain Buildings And Structures: If any side yard for any
building or structure existing as of February 15, 1994, is less than ten
percent (10%) of the total width of the lot, the minimum width of that side
yard shall be the greater of: a) the existing side yard; or b) five feet (5').
If the existing building or structure is subsequently replaced, to the extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of replacement of such structure
new, exclusive of foundation, the side yard regulation in subsection B2 of this
section shall apply. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2005-8, 4-25-2005)
10-5E-3: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet, nor a width of less than seventy
five feet (75'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE F. A RESIDENCE DISTRICT (R-3)
SECTION:
10-5F-1: Regulations And Permitted Uses Generally
10-5F-2: Yards
10-5F-3: Lot Area And Width
10-5F-1: REGULATIONS AND PERMITTED USES GENERALLY:
A.   Regulations Generally: The A residence district (R-3) regulations shall be
identical with the estate residence district (E-1) regulations, with the
exception of the provisions of this article.
B.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the A residence
district (R-3) for any purpose except those permitted and special uses
identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5F-2: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the depth of the lot, provided such rear yard shall
not be less than ten feet (10') in depth and need not exceed twenty five feet
(25') in depth.
B.   Side Yards:
1.   Combined Side Yards: The minimum total width of both side yards on a lot
shall be twenty percent (20%) of the total width of the lot.
2.   Individual Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard on a lot shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total width of the lot, except as otherwise
provided in subsection B3 of this section.
3.   Side Yards For Certain Buildings And Structures: If any side yard for any
building or structure existing as of February 15, 1994, is less than ten
percent (10%) of the total width of the lot, the minimum width of that side
yard shall be the greater of: a) the existing side yard; or b) five feet (5').
If the existing building or structure is subsequently replaced, to the extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of replacement of such structure
new, exclusive of foundation, the side yard regulation in subsection B2 of this
section shall apply. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2005-8, 4-25-2005)
10-5F-3: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than nine thousand five hundred (9,500) square feet, nor a width of less than
sixty feet (60'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE G. B RESIDENCE DISTRICT (R-4)
SECTION:
10-5G-1: Regulations And Permitted Uses Generally
10-5G-2: Yards
10-5G-3: Lot Area And Width
10-5G-1: REGULATIONS AND PERMITTED USES GENERALLY:
A.   Regulations Generally: The B residence district (R-4) regulations shall be
identical with the estate residence district (E-1) regulations, with the
exception of the provisions of this article.
B.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the B residence
district (R-4) for any purpose except those permitted and special uses
identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5G-2: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the depth of the lot, provided such rear yard shall
not be less than ten feet (10') in depth and need not exceed twenty five feet
(25') in depth.
B.   Side Yards:
1.   Combined Side Yards: The minimum total width of both side yards on a lot
shall be the greater of: a) twenty percent (20%) of the total width of the lot;
or b) ten feet (10').
2.   Individual Side Yards: The minimum width of each side yard on a lot shall
be the greater of: a) ten percent (10%) of the total width of the lot; or b)
five feet (5'), except as otherwise provided in subsection B3 of this section.
3.   Side Yards For Certain Buildings Or Structures: If any side yard for any
building or structure existing as of April 25, 2005, is less than ten percent
(10%) of the total width of the lot, the minimum width of that side yard shall
be the greater of: a) the existing side yard; or b) five feet (5'). If the
existing building or structure is subsequently replaced, to the extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of replacement of such structure new,
exclusive of foundation, the side yard regulation in subsection B2 of this
section shall apply. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2005-8, 4-25-2005)
10-5G-3: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, nor a width of less than
fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE H. C RESIDENCE DISTRICT (R-5)
SECTION:
10-5H-1: Permitted Uses
10-5H-2: Reserved
10-5H-3: Building Height
10-5H-4: Yards
10-5H-5: Lot Area And Width
10-5H-6: Multiple-Family Dwellings
10-5H-1: PERMITTED USES:
No building or lot shall be used within any C residence district (R-5) for any
purpose other than those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning
use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5H-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5H-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the maximum height
limitations set forth in sections
10-5-4 and
10-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5H-4: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the depth of the lot, provided such rear yard shall
not be less than ten feet (10') in depth and need not exceed twenty five feet
(25') in depth.
B.   Side Yards: Each side yard on a lot shall have a width of not less than
twenty percent (20%) of the total width of the lot, or ten feet (10'),
whichever is less. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5H-5: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, nor a width of less than
fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
10-5H-6: MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
No multiple-family dwellings may be constructed in any building below the
finished grade of the adjacent ground level. There shall not be more than one
multiple-family dwelling for each two thousand (2,000) square feet of area on a
lot. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994)
ARTICLE I. D RESIDENCE DISTRICT (R-6)
SECTION:
10-5I-1: Purpose; Application Of Provisions
10-5I-2: Regulations And Permitted Uses Generally
10-5I-3: Yards
10-5I-4: Lot Width And Area
10-5I-5: Building Height
10-5I-6: Floor Area Ratio
10-5I-7: Impervious Surface Coverage
10-5I-8: Building Coverage
10-5I-1: PURPOSE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The intent of this article is to adopt regulations specifically designed to
reflect and be consistent with the existing conditions on lots located within
the fully developed residential subdivision commonly known as the sanctuary
subdivision. The sanctuary subdivision was subdivided to the plats of
subdivision for the sanctuary subdivision, units 1 and 2, which plats were
recorded with the county recorder of deeds as document nos. 3537870 and 3671339
(the "plats of sanctuary subdivision"). The sanctuary subdivision was fully
developed under this title. The sanctuary subdivision was annexed to the
village in 1998 as a fully developed subdivision containing one hundred seventy
seven (177) residential lots. The regulations in this article are intended to
apply only to the lots contained in the sanctuary subdivision. The R-6 district
is inappropriate for mapping, and shall not be mapped, in any other area of the
village. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000)
10-5I-2: REGULATIONS AND PERMITTED USES GENERALLY:
A.   Regulations Generally: The D residence district (R-6) regulations shall be
identical with the estate residence district (E-1) regulations, with the
exception of the provisions of this article.
B.   Permitted Uses: No building or lot shall be used within the D residence
district (R-6) for any purpose except those permitted and special uses
identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-5I-3: YARDS:
A.   Rear Yard:
1.   General Requirement: Except as may be provided in either subsection A2 or
A3, or both, of this section, each rear yard on a lot shall have a depth of not
less than twenty five feet (25').
2.   Preexisting Lots: The minimum required rear yard for any lot existing as
of December 11, 2000, shall be the rear yard designated for any such lot on the
plats of sanctuary subdivision.
3.   Decks: A deck may be located not closer than twenty feet (20') from the
rear lot line, provided the deck does not encroach onto any utility easement or
any conservancy area established pursuant to the plats of the sanctuary
subdivision.
B.   Side Yards: Each side yard on a lot shall have a depth of not less than
five feet (5'); provided, however, that notwithstanding such limitation, the
minimum required side yard for any lot existing as of December 11, 2000, shall
be the side yard designated for any such lot on the plats of the sanctuary
subdivision. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000; amd. Ord. 2002-04, 4-8-2002; 2009 Code)
10-5I-4: LOT WIDTH AND AREA:
The lot width and area of each lot shall be the lot width and area existing on
any such lot as of December 11, 2000, and as designated on the plats of the
sanctuary subdivision. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
10-5I-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall be hereafter erected or altered to exceed the maximum height
limitations set forth in sections
10-5-4 and
10-5-5 of this chapter. Notwithstanding such limitations, any principal
building existing as of December 11, 2000, that exceeds the maximum height
limitations set forth in said sections
10-5-4 and
10-5-5 shall not be deemed a nonconforming building pursuant to section
10-8-2 of this title, and the maximum height for any such building shall be the
height of the building as of December 11, 2000. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000; amd.
2009 Code)
10-5I-6: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
The maximum floor area ratio for each lot shall be as set forth in section
10-5-6 of this chapter; provided, however, that any lot existing as of December
11, 2000, that exceeds the maximum floor area ratio required by said section
10-5-6 shall not be deemed nonconforming pursuant to section
10-8-2 of this title, and the maximum floor area ratio for any such lot shall
be the floor area ratio of the lot as of December 11, 2000. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-
11-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
10-5I-7: IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
The maximum impervious surface coverage for each lot shall be as set forth in
section
10-5-7 of this chapter for lots in the R-4 district; provided, however, that
any lot existing as of December 11, 2000, that exceeds the maximum impervious
surface coverage required by said section
10-5-7 shall not be deemed nonconforming pursuant to section
10-8-2 of this title, and the maximum impervious surface coverage for any such
lot shall be the impervious surface coverage of the lot as of December 11,
2000. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
10-5I-8: BUILDING COVERAGE:
The maximum building coverage of all buildings and accessory structures for
each lot shall be as set forth in section
10-5-8 of this chapter for lots in the R-4 district; provided, however, that
any lot existing as of December 11, 2000, that exceeds the maximum building
coverage required by said section
10-5-8 shall not be deemed nonconforming pursuant to section
10-8-2 of this title, and the maximum building coverage for any such lot shall
be the building coverage on the lot as of December 11, 2000. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-
11-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE J. PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT (PRD)
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
CHAPTER 6
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD)
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Permitted Uses
10-6A-2: Reserved
10-6A-3: Reserved
10-6A-4: Building Height
10-6A-5: Setbacks
10-6A-6: Lot Area, Width And Coverage
10-6A-7: Accessory Buildings Prohibited
10-6A-8: Parking
10-6A-9: Storage And Loading
10-6A-10: Reserved
10-6A-11: Design Standards And Guidelines
10-6A-12: Refuse Containers
10-6A-13: Hours Of Operation For Food And Beverage Uses
10-6A-1: PERMITTED USES:
A.   Uses; Applicable Conditions: No building or lot shall be used within the
Central Business District (CBD) for any purpose except those permitted and
special uses identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title.
B.   Conditions Specific To Certain Permitted Uses: The following permitted
uses in the Central Business District (CBD) are subject to the following
conditions:
The use of the first floor of any property or any combination of the first,
second, and third floors of any property for residential purposes, including,
without limitation, townhomes, apartments, and condominiums, in the CBD
District is permitted only in CBD block one. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6A-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6A-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
A.   CBD General: Except as provided in subsection B of this section with
regard to buildings and structures in CBD block one, no building or structure
in the CBD shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height, nor shall any building or
structure in the CBD exceed two (2) stories.
B.   CBD Block One: Notwithstanding the general height restriction set forth in
subsection A of this section, no building or structure in CBD block one shall
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height, nor shall any building or structure in
CBD block one exceed three (3) stories. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999)
10-6A-5: SETBACKS:
In lieu of specific front, rear, or side yard setbacks, the following building
setbacks shall apply in the CBD:
A.   CBD Block One:
1.   Scranton Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block one with
frontage on Scranton Avenue, no building setback along Scranton Avenue shall be
required.
2.   Sheridan Road: Any building on any lot in CBD block one with frontage on
Sheridan Road shall have a building setback from Sheridan Road of not less than
fifteen feet (15').
3.   North Avenue: Any building on any lot in CBD block one with frontage on
North Avenue shall have a building setback from North Avenue of not less than
twenty feet (20').
4.   Walnut Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block one with frontage
on Walnut Avenue, no building setback along Walnut Avenue shall be required.
5.   Lots Abutting Residential Lots:
a.   Any building on any lot in CBD block one that abuts the side lot line of a
lot zoned in a residential district shall have a building setback from said
side lot line of not less than fifteen feet (15').
b.   Any building on any lot in CBD block one that abuts the rear lot line of a
lot zoned in a residential district shall have a setback from said rear lot
line of not less than eighteen feet (18').
B.   CBD Block Two:
1.   Scranton Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block two with
frontage on Scranton Avenue, no building setback along Scranton Avenue shall be
required.
2.   Walnut Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block two with frontage
on Walnut Avenue, no building setback along Walnut Avenue shall be required.
3.   Oak Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block two with frontage on
Oak Avenue, no building setback along Oak Avenue shall be required.
4.   Lots Abutting North Avenue Lots: Any building on any lot in CBD block two
that abuts the rear lot line of a lot that fronts on North Avenue shall have a
building setback from said rear lot line of not less than eighteen feet (18').
C.   CBD Block Three:
1.   Scranton Avenue: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection E
of this section, any building on any lot in CBD block three with a boundary
along Scranton Avenue shall have a building setback from Scranton Avenue of not
less than seven and one-half feet (7.5').
2.   Oak Avenue: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection E of
this section, for any building on any lot in CBD block three with a boundary
along Oak Avenue, no building setback along Oak Avenue shall be required.
3.   Lots Abutting Residential Lots:
a.   Any building on any lot in CBD block three that abuts the side lot line of
a lot zoned in a residential district shall have a building setback from said
side lot line of not less than ten feet (10').
b.   Any building on any lot in CBD block three that abuts the rear lot line of
a lot zoned in a residential district shall have a building setback from said
rear lot line of not less than eighteen feet (18').
D.   CBD Block Four:
1.   Scranton Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block four along
Scranton Avenue, no building setback along Scranton Avenue shall be required.
2.   Center Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block four along Center
Avenue, no building setback along Center Avenue shall be required.
3.   Oak Avenue: For any building on any lot in CBD block four along Oak
Avenue, no building setback along Oak Avenue shall be required.
4.   Lots Abutting Center Avenue Lots: Any building on any lot in CBD block
four that abuts the rear or side lot line of a lot that fronts on Center Avenue
shall have a building setback from said rear or side lot line of not less than
fifteen feet (15').
E.   CBD Adjoining Residential District:
1.   Any lot in the CBD that has a boundary line on the same street and has the
same front line as an adjacent lot in the same block that is in a residence
district shall conform to the setback requirements of the adjoining residence
district; provided, however, that no building on such a lot in the CBD shall be
required by this subsection to set back more than fifteen feet (15') from the
street line.
2.   Where the rear of a corner lot in the CBD abuts the rear of a corner lot
in a residence district, the side yard setback along the side street in the CBD
shall conform to the side yard setback required along such street in the
residence district; provided, however, that no building on such a lot in the
CBD shall be required by this subsection to have a side yard setback of more
than ten feet (10') along the side street. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999; amd. Ord.
2017-8, 5-22-2017)
10-6A-6: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND COVERAGE:
No building or structure in the CBD shall hereafter be erected on any lot
having a total area of less than six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square
feet, nor a width of less than fifty feet (50'). The total coverage area of any
building or structure in the CBD shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the
total area of the lot on which such building or structure is located; provided,
however, that whenever part of any building or structure is used for
residential purposes, such building or structure shall only be constructed on a
lot having at least one thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area per dwelling
unit. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999)
10-6A-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
Accessory buildings are prohibited in the CBD. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999)
10-6A-8: PARKING:
A.   Application:
1.   The existing number of off-street parking spaces on a property may not be
reduced below the requirements of this Section. If the number of such existing
off-street parking spaces is already less than required by this Section, it may
not be further reduced.
2.   Existing off-street parking spaces that do not conform to the requirements
of this Section may continue to be maintained and utilized as they are so long
as they remain in conformance with the applicable off-street parking space
regulations that were in effect at the time the parking spaces were
constructed.
3.   Existing structures that do not currently provide the required number of
off-street parking spaces due to a lack of sufficient space on the lot
(“Qualifying Structures”) are not required to have any additional off-street
parking spaces, provided that:
a.   An Owner that expands a Qualifying Structure must provide additional off-
street parking spaces for the expanded floor area and/or dwelling units. The
number of additional off-street parking spaces that shall be required shall be
calculated in accordance with subsection D of this Section.
b.    As a condition upon the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any
new business or use within a Qualifying Structure, the owner must:
(1)   Prohibit their owners, managers, employees, and contractors from parking
vehicles upon public streets or rights-of-way while on duty.
(2)    Purchase parking permit(s) for the Village train station lot in an
adequate number for all of their owners, managers, employees, and contractors
on duty at any given time.
(3)   The number of permits required by subsection (2) may be reduced by the
number of off-street parking spaces with a posted parking restriction that is
specific to the business or use.
B.   General Parking Regulations: Parking lots and spaces in the CBD shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the standards and
requirements provided in this subsection:
1.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate on site parking or remote
parking spaces shall be so arranged as to prevent direct glare of beams onto
any adjacent public or private property or streets by the use of luminaire
cutoffs. All lighting shall be reduced to security levels at all times of
nonuse.
2.   Design:
a.   Access To Street:
(1)   Least Interference: All parking lots, areas, and garages shall be located
and designed to provide access to adjacent streets with the least interference
with pedestrian and through traffic movement.
(2)   Curb Cut And Driveway Width: All on site parking spaces and loading
facilities shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway of such width and
design to provide safe and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking
space or loading facility. All on site parking spaces and loading facilities
shall be designed with sufficient vehicular access to a street that will least
interfere with traffic movement. No driveway across public property or curb
cuts shall exceed a width of twenty six feet (26') without the prior written
approval of the village engineer.
b.   Turnaround Area: Every parking lot or garage shall be provided with a
turnaround area or other means to permit cars to exit the parking lot or garage
without backing onto any street or sidewalk.
c.   Surface; Drainage; Markings: All parking spaces, lots, and garages shall
be surfaced with a bituminous or Portland cement concrete pavement, cement
paver bricks, or a similar hard surface approved by the village engineer,
providing an all weather, durable, and dustless surface. All parking surfaces
shall be graded and drained to dispose of surface water accumulation by means
of a positive stormwater drainage system connected to a public storm sewer
system. Individual stalls shall be clearly identified by painted markings four
inches (4") in width.
d.   Car Stops: Wheel stops of masonry, steel, or heavy timber shall be placed
near all interior parking lot lines to protect abutting property and also along
street lines to prevent protrusion of vehicles into any right of way.
e.   Circulation Aisles:
(1)   Each parking space in a parking lot shall be accessed by a circulation
aisle of a width, in feet and inches, as specified below:
 
Parking Angle One-Way Aisle Width Two-Way Aisle Width
Parallel      12'0"               24'0"
40°          12'6"               24'0"
60°          14'6"               24'0"
90°          22'6"               24'0"
 
(2)   The aisle width dimensions in subsection B2e(1) of this section may be
reduced if the village engineer determines that such reduction will not
adversely affect the safe and efficient use of such parking spaces and such
parking lot.
f.   Tandem Spaces: No parking spaces shall be designed in "tandem" so that
ingress to or egress from one space is blocked by a second space.
g.   Space Dimensions:
(1)   Each on site or remote parking space, excluding its associated
circulation aisle, shall have the following minimum dimensions, in feet and
inches:
 
Parking Angle Stall Width Stall Length Stall Height
Parallel      8'0"        20'0"        6'8"
45°          9'0"        17'6"        6'8"
60°          9'0"        19'0"        6'8"
90°          9'0"        18'0"        6'8"
 
(2)   The stall width dimensions in subsection B2g(1) of this section shall be
increased for required handicapped parking spaces to the width required under
applicable state law. The said stall dimensions may be reduced if the village
engineer determines that such reduction will not adversely affect the safe and
efficient use of such parking spaces.
h.   Tree Planting Areas: Trees located within planting islands in paved areas
shall have a minimum landscaped area of at least thirty six (36) square feet of
surface area and be designed to permit adequate drainage.
i.   Maintenance: All tree planting areas, parking lots, garages, and parking
areas shall be properly maintained at all times so as to be free of potholes,
broken curbs, and other damaged or neglected features.
j.   Architectural Board Of Review (ABR) Approval: The arrangements, surfacing,
screening, and illumination of any open parking lot shall be subject to the
approval as part of the design approval process required by section
10-2C-6.
3.   Use: Except as otherwise set forth in this title, no space, parking lot,
or garage shall be used for any purpose other than the temporary storage of
motor vehicles related to the premises. The storage of merchandise and the sale
or commercial repair of vehicles are prohibited.
4.   Screening: Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, every
parking lot shall be buffered and screened by a perimeter landscaped open space
having a width of at least five feet (5') and consisting of an opaque fence,
wall, or a densely planted hedge. Such screening shall have a minimum height of
at least three feet (3'). No fence or wall shall exceed six feet (6') in
height.
C.   Location Of Required Spaces:
1.   General Rule: Except as provided in subsection C2 of this section, parking
spaces required by this section shall be located on the same zoning lot on
which the use to be served is located; provided, however, that no such on site
parking spaces shall be located in the front yard of the zoning lot on which
the use to be served is located; and provided further, that no such on site
parking spaces shall be located within fifteen feet (15') of the Sheridan Road
right of way.
2.   Remote Parking: When proposed: a) in lieu of otherwise applicable on site
parking requirements; b) to eliminate a parking deficiency; c) when required
because of an increase in intensity of use; or d) when required because of the
issuance of a special use permit or variation, parking spaces may be located on
a lot other than on the lot on which the use to be served is located ("remote
parking spaces") pursuant to the prior written approval of the village
administrator; provided, however, that no such remote parking spaces shall be
located on any lot zoned in a residential district. Any such remote parking
spaces shall be subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
a.   Availability: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C2c of this
section, the applicant requesting approval of remote parking spaces shall
establish that sufficient remote parking spaces at a public or private location
capable of satisfying the otherwise applicable requirements of this section are
available at the time of application, or will be available in a period of time
satisfactory to the village administrator.
b.   Private Parking Lot; Covenant: If the site for remote parking spaces is on
private property, such location shall be under the ownership or control of the
individual or entity that owns or controls the lot on which the use to be
served is located. Any such private property shall be covenanted in a document
recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds to remain as parking for
so long as said remote parking spaces are required to meet the standards of
this article.
c.   Public Parking Facilities: If the site for remote parking spaces is not on
private property, any approval for such remote parking spaces shall be
conditioned on the applicant, or the owner of the lot on which the use to be
served is located, either: 1) paying the village a fee in lieu of such remote
parking space requested and approved as described in subsection C2c(1) of this
section; or 2) purchasing an annual parking permit for the village train
station lot in lieu of such remote parking space as described in subsection C2c
(2) of this section.
(1)   Fee: In lieu of providing remote parking spaces on private property, the
applicant or owner may pay to the village a fee, as follows:
(A)   Time Of Payment: Such fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit for the construction or other work contemplated on the lot on
which the use to be served is located or at the time of the building
commissioner's approval, whichever is later.
(B)   Amount Of Payment: The fee required pursuant to this subsection C2c(1)
shall be in the amount of twelve thousand eight hundred dollars ($12,800.00)
per remote parking space.
(C)   Use Of Fee: All fees collected by the village pursuant to this subsection
shall be placed into a village parking fund and shall be used only for capital
improvements to the parking facilities in and around the CBD as directed by the
board of trustees. For purposes of this subsection C2c(1), "capital
improvements" shall include, without limitation, the acquisition of property
and the design, construction, reconstruction, modification, or other
improvements of new or existing parking facilities.
(2)   Parking Permit: In lieu of providing remote parking spaces on private
property, the applicant or owner may purchase from the village a parking permit
for the village train station lot. The fee shall be paid to the village on an
annual basis for so long as the remote parking space is required to meet the
standards of this article. The parking permit fee shall be as set out in
section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "permit fees", for each remote parking
space.
d.   Residential Parking: Remote parking spaces shall not be allowed to be
substituted for the on site parking required for residential uses pursuant to
subsection D1d of this section.
e.   Distance: All remote parking spaces provided on private property shall be
located within five hundred feet (500') of the zoning lot on which the use to
be served is located.
D.   Required Spaces:
1.   General Requirements: For the following uses, the following minimum number
of on site parking spaces shall be provided:
a.   Retail Trade: One space for every three hundred fifty (350) square feet of
gross floor area used for any use permitted as of right pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article or as a special use pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article; provided, however, that for retail uses located on the
first floor, one space for every five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor
area shall be provided.
b.   Services: One space for every three hundred fifty (350) square feet of
gross floor area used for any use permitted as of right pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article or as a special use pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article; provided, however, that for an auto service/gas
station/auto repair special use pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article, drive-in or drive- through facilities, an additional
two (2) spaces shall be provided for each island of pumps and for each service
stall, and an additional one space shall be provided for every two (2)
employees; and provided further, that for service uses located on the first
floor, one space for every five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area
shall be provided.
c.   Finance, Insurance, Office And Real Estate: One space for every three
hundred fifty (350) square feet of gross floor area used for any use permitted
as of right pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article or as a special use pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article; provided, however, for finance, insurance, office, and
real estate uses located on a floor other than the first floor, one space for
every five hundred feet (500') of gross floor area shall be required.
d.   Residential: One and one-half (1.5) spaces for each dwelling unit used
pursuant to section
10-6A-1 of this article; provided, however, for dwelling units located on a
floor other than the first floor, one space for each dwelling unit shall be
required.
2.   Fractional Spaces: When determination of the number of required parking
spaces results in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction shall
require one additional parking space. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999; amd. Ord. 2004-28,
10-25-2004; 2009 Code; Ord. 2022-28, 10-10-2022; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-6A-9: STORAGE AND LOADING:
A.   Outdoor Storage Prohibited: Outdoor storage of any equipment, materials,
products, goods, or parts of any nature is prohibited.
B.   Loading Areas: All loading areas, and the entrances and exits thereto,
shall be located in the rear of the lot. All loading areas, and the entrances
and exits thereto, shall be located on the same lot served by such loading
areas, entrances, and exits. No loading area shall be located on any public
street. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999)
10-6A-10: RESERVED:
(Repealed by Ord. 2022-38)
10-6A-11: DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES:
A.   Purpose: Due to its modest scale, the CBD exhibits an intimacy within the
village that is unique among suburban business districts. This extraordinary
feature should not be sacrificed as part of revitalization, redevelopment, or
remodeling involving new construction or exterior modifications. Rather, the
maintenance of this intimacy is the key purpose and goal underlying the design
guidelines set forth in subsection B of this section.
B.   Design Guidelines: The following design guidelines are for use in
reviewing site design, building architecture, and related streetscape
construction within the CBD. These guidelines are designed to encourage
reinvestment and creativity consistent with the scale and style of the CBD. The
guidelines are intended to provide direction to the private developers as well
as to the Architectural Board of Review, PCZBA, and the Village Board of
Trustees whenever reviewing new construction or exterior remodeling in the CBD.
1.   Generally: The design concept for the CBD is an early twentieth century
small town district focused on a "main street", a village green, and a commuter
railroad station. Existing buildings and other key physical features of
architectural or historic merit should be preserved to the extent feasible and
should be the standard against which all new development and exterior
modifications are measured. It is essential that the CBD exhibit a pedestrian
friendly ambiance throughout.
2.   Organization And Design: The organization and design of the major elements
of the buildings and structures in the CBD should reflect the characteristic
rhythm and scale of adjacent and surrounding buildings and structures in order
to create a pleasing, composite appearance for the entire CBD.
3.   Elevations: All building elevations visible from other private property or
from a public street or open space should be designed in harmony with such
other property, streets, and open space.
4.   Architectural Style: A variety of alternative, yet compatible,
architectural styles is acceptable. However, new commercial buildings should be
consistent with established styles.
5.   Style And Design: The style and design of new construction and renovations
should be influenced by the principles set forth in Illinois preservation
series publication 19, "Storefronts On Main Street: An Architectural History",
a copy of which is on file with the village clerk.
6.   Residential Coordination: The CBD blocks should be designed and maintained
as coordinated, mixed use units linked visually to neighboring CBD blocks.
7.   Sidewalks: All CBD blocks should have sidewalks on all four (4) sides.
8.   Vehicular Access: Vehicular access to parking and service areas within the
CBD should be provided at a limited number of locations.
9.   Parking: Parking should be integrated into CBD development in a manner
that will minimize visibility from public streets, unless appropriately
screened from public view from adjacent properties with such landscaping,
fencing, or other means as shall comply with the regulations of this article
and that shall be approved as part of the design review process required by
section
10-2C-6. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999; amd. Ord. 2012-10, 4-9-2012, eff. 5-1-2012; Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-6A-12: REFUSE CONTAINERS 1 :
A.   Screening Required: All refuse containers shall be fully enclosed by an
opaque fence, wall, or densely planted evergreen hedge of a height sufficient
to screen such containers from view from adjoining properties and public or
private streets.
B.   Location: No refuse container shall be located in any required front or
rear yards. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-2-6 of this code.
10-6A-13: HOURS OF OPERATION FOR FOOD AND BEVERAGE USES:
Except as may be specifically provided otherwise by ordinance or resolution, a
food or beverage use (including, without limitation, "eating places without
drive-in or drive-through facilities," "drinking places accessory to permitted
eating places," and "breweries and brewpubs") within the Central Business
District may be open to the public for on-premises, carry-out, or delivery
service during the following hours:
 
TABLE 10-6A-13 CBD FOOD AND BEVERAGE HOURS OF                   Operations in
OPERATION                                      All operations   outdoor service
                                                                areas
Weekdays (Sun - Thu)                           6:00 a.m. - 11:  6:00 a.m. - 11:
                                               00 p.m.          00 p.m.
Weekends (Fri & Sat)                           6:00 a.m. -      6:00 a.m. -
                                               midnight         midnight
Annual Holidays.
   July 3                                   6:00 a.m. -      6:00 a.m. -
                                               midnight         midnight
   Fourth Wednesday in November (day before 6:00 a.m. -      6:00 a.m. -
Thanksgiving)                                  midnight         midnight
                                               6:00 a.m. - 1:00 6:00 a.m. -
   New Year's Eve                           a.m. on January  midnight
                                               1
 
(Ord. 2023-1, 1-10-2023)
ARTICLE B. OFFICE AND RESEARCH DISTRICT (O&R)
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses; Conditions
10-6B-3: Building Height
10-6B-4: Lot Area, Width And Intensity Of Use
10-6B-5: Yards
10-6B-6: Parking
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of this article is to permit certain administrative and research
organizations, which do not in any way detract from residential desirability,
to locate adjacent to certain residential districts. The limitations as to
height, ground coverage, and offensive characteristics are imposed to protect
and foster residential desirability of the community. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES; CONDITIONS:
A.   Uses Permitted: No building or lot shall be used within the office and
research district (O&R) for any purpose except those permitted and special uses
identified in the zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title.
B.   Restrictions: The operations and activities of such uses shall be
conducted wholly inside a building or buildings, and no use shall emit odors,
gas, dust, smoke or lighting effects to an extent offensive or objectionable to
any surrounding or nearby properties. No merchandise shall be handled for sale
or merchandise services rendered on the premises except such as are incidental
or accessory to the principal, permissible use of the premises. No portion of
any lot shall be used for open or unenclosed storage. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6B-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall be erected or enlarged, the vertical side walls of which
shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in height; provided however, penthouse or
roof structures for the housing of elevators and walls of a gable roof,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and
maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, radio and television aerials or antennas, wireless
masts, or similar structures may be erected, notwithstanding the provisions of
this title, above the height limits herein prescribed; provided, that such
height additions shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') over the height limit
herein provided when erected in accordance with all other ordinances of the
village; and provided further, that all ventilating fans, tanks, heating
equipment, cooling towers and similar equipment shall be screened from view
with screening as approved by the architectural board of review. (Ord. 87-38,
12-14-1987)
10-6B-4: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND INTENSITY OF USE:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than three (3) acres (130,680 square feet), nor less than two hundred feet
(200') in width. The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings shall be not
more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or tract on which a
building permit has been issued. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-6B-5: YARDS:
A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard depth of not less than one hundred
feet (100') from the nearest right of way line of the road or street upon which
the property fronts, wherein there shall be no structure of any kind or the
parking of automobiles.
B.   Side Yards: There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than thirty
five feet (35') on each side of the building or buildings, but where the
property is adjacent to a residential district, there shall be a side yard of
not less than fifty feet (50') on the side nearest to the residential lots. The
parking of private automobiles may be permitted within the side yard areas, but
no parking space or access driveway shall be closer than fifteen feet (15') to
any lot zoned for residential use.
C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a minimum rear yard of not less than thirty five
feet (35'), and there shall be no parking of automobiles or access driveway
within fifteen feet (15') closest to any lot zoned for residential use. (Ord.
87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-6B-6: PARKING:
The parking regulations shall be identical to those contained in the light
industry district, being subsection 10-7A-6B of this title; with the exception,
that whenever any building is erected for any of the uses permitted in this
district, the number of parking spaces to be provided on the lot or in the
building shall be one car for each two (2) employees, based on the greatest
number of employees at work at one time, as well as the trucks or other
vehicles owned or in the custody of the owner. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
ARTICLE C. AUTOMOTIVE PARK DISTRICT (AP-1)
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Purpose
10-6C-2: Special Definitions
10-6C-3: Size Of District
10-6C-4: Permitted Uses
10-6C-5: Accessory Uses
10-6C-6: Reserved
10-6C-7: Reserved
10-6C-8: Multiple Buildings Per Lot
10-6C-9: Building Height
10-6C-10: Lot Area, Width And Coverage
10-6C-11: Yards And Setbacks
10-6C-12: Outdoor Activity Restrictions
10-6C-13: Loading On Public Or Private Ways Prohibited
10-6C-14: Off Street Parking And Loading Facilities
10-6C-15: Signage
10-6C-16: Performance Standards
10-6C-1: PURPOSE:
The objective of this article is to provide adequate space in suitable
locations of the Village for commercial land uses involved in automotive and
vehicular sales, services and related activities so as to protect and
strengthen the economic base of the Village as well as the value of real estate
throughout the Village. The automotive park district provides for the
establishment and continuance of automotive and vehicular sales, service and
related activities on sites of such size as to be compatible with the general
nature of the activities present. All land uses in this district shall be
creatively planned and developed in accordance with flexible and specially
designed zoning and subdivision standards. No building shall be constructed in
this district on any tract of land, regardless of its area, unless and until
the tract is included in a subdivision approved pursuant to the Village
subdivision ordinance. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-6C-2: SPECIAL DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DEVELOPMENT PARCEL: A parcel of land designated, at the time of filing for
design review approval pursuant to section
10-2C-6, for the construction of a new, or renovation or use of an existing,
building or structure within which a permitted use in the automotive park
district is, or is intended to be, located and operated.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot that is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds, or a parcel of land
separately described in a recorded instrument.
NEW TRANSPORTATION DEALERSHIP FRANCHISES: Establishments engaged in the retail
sale of any or all of the following new transportation vehicles:
   Aircraft.
   Automobiles.
   Boats and personal watercraft.
   Motorcycles.
   Recreational vehicles.
   Snowmobiles.
   Trucks and vans (franchised and nonfranchised).
TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE SUPPLIES AND SERVICES ESTABLISHMENTS: Establishments
engaged in the retail sale of transportation vehicle supplies, the provision of
transportation vehicle service, and/or the sale and installation of
transportation vehicle parts, but only as specifically listed below:
   Automotive, aircraft and marine accessory stores.
   Automotive, aircraft, and marine detail shops.
   Automotive, aircraft and marine upholstery shops.
   Vehicle body shops.
   Vehicle muffler shops.
   Vehicle oil change facilities.
   Vehicle painting facilities.
   Vehicle radio/stereo, cellular telephone and communications stores.
   Vehicle service and repair centers.
   Vehicle service stations, including fuel and minimart services.
   Vehicle tire, battery, accessory stores.
   Vehicle washing facilities.
USED TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE DEALERSHIPS: Establishments engaged in the retail
sale of any or all of the following used transportation vehicles, provided,
however, that such establishments must be accessory to, and located on the same
zoning lot as, a permitted new transportation vehicle dealership franchise:
   Aircraft.
   Automobiles.
   Boats and personal watercraft.
   Motorcycles.
   Recreational vehicles.
   Snowmobiles.
   Trucks and vans (franchised and nonfranchised).
ZONING LOT: A tract of land consisting of one or more contiguous lots of
record, under single ownership or control at the time of filing for design
review approval pursuant to section 10-2C-20, and designated as a "zoning lot"
by the applicant at the time of such filing. The sale of individual lots of
record underlying a building following issuance of a certificate of occupancy
for such building shall not prevent treatment of the tract of land underlying
such building as part of the original zoning lot. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd.
Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-6C-3: SIZE OF DISTRICT:
The minimum land area that may be designated as automotive park district shall
be seven (7) acres. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-6C-4: PERMITTED USES:
No building or lot shall be used within the automotive park district (AP-1) for
any purpose except those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning
use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6C-5: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses, as defined in and subject to the conditions in section
10-1-2 of this title, shall be allowed in the automotive park district. The
following is a nonexhaustive list of accessory uses allowed in the automotive
park district, subject to the limitations and restrictions noted:
   Automobile museum areas; provided, that the museum area: a) must be
accessory to a permitted new transportation dealership franchise; and b) must
not be the sole and exclusive use in a detached, stand alone, building or
structure.
   Automobile rental and/or leasing services; provided, that such services are
accessory to a permitted transportation dealership franchise. Such services may
be located in a detached structure or wholly within a permitted new
transportation dealership franchise building or structure.
   Financial, insurance and loan services; provided, that such services are
accessory to a permitted transportation dealership franchise. Such services may
be located in a detached structure or wholly within a permitted new
transportation dealership franchise building or structure.
   Off street parking areas, as regulated by section
10-6C-14 of this article.
   Offices accessory to a permitted transportation dealership franchise. Such
offices may be located in a detached structure or wholly within a permitted new
transportation dealership franchise building or structure.
   Outdoor display pads, as regulated by subsection 10-6C-12C of this article.
   Restaurants; provided, that the restaurant: a) must be accessory to a
permitted new transportation dealership franchise; and b) must not be the sole
and exclusive use in a detached, stand alone building or structure.
   Signs, as regulated by subsection 10-10-14C of this title. (Ord. 96-27, 9-
24-1996)
10-6C-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6C-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-6C-8: MULTIPLE BUILDINGS PER LOT:
More than one principal building may be constructed on a single zoning lot in
the automotive park district. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-
2022)
10-6C-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of three (3) stories or thirty four feet (34'), whichever is less;
provided however, penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and
maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, chimneys,
smokestacks, radio and television aerials or antennas, wireless masts, or
similar structures may be erected, notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, above the height limits herein prescribed; provided, however, that
such height additions shall not exceed ten feet (10') above the height limit
herein provided when erected in accordance with all other ordinances of the
village; and provided further, that all ventilating fans, tanks, heating
equipment, cooling towers and similar equipment shall be screened from view
with screening designed so as to be in harmony and blend with the architecture
of the building. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-6C-10: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND COVERAGE:
No building or structure shall be erected in the automotive park district on a
development parcel consisting of less than one and one-half (1.5) acres (65,340
square feet), nor less than one hundred fifty feet (150') in width. The maximum
ground area occupied by all buildings including accessory buildings and
enclosed storage areas (excluding areas utilized for outdoor display of
vehicles for sale) shall be not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of
the development parcel on which a building permit has been issued. (Ord. 96-27,
9-24-1996)
10-6C-11: YARDS AND SETBACKS:
A.   Zoning Lots:
1.   Front And Corner Side Yards: Each zoning lot shall have a front yard and,
if applicable, a corner side yard consisting of at least fifty feet (50').
2.   Front And Corner Side Setbacks: All buildings shall be set back at least
seventy five feet (75') from the front lot line and, if applicable, the corner
side lot line of a zoning lot.
3.   Side Yard: Each zoning lot shall have a side yard of at least thirty feet
(30'); however, the minimum size of a side yard that abuts a residential
district shall be fifty feet (50').
4.   Side Setback: All buildings shall be set back at least thirty feet (30')
from the side lot line of a zoning lot; however, the minimum size of a building
setback from a side lot line that abuts a residential district shall be fifty
feet (50').
5.   Rear Yard: Each zoning lot shall have a rear yard of at least thirty feet
(30'); however, the minimum size of a rear yard that abuts a residential
district shall be fifty feet (50').
6.   Rear Setback: All buildings shall be set back at least thirty feet (30')
from the rear lot line of a zoning lot; however, the minimum size of a building
setback from a rear lot line that abuts a residential district shall be fifty
feet (50').
B.   Development Parcels:
1.   Front Yard: Each development parcel abutting a right of way (public or
private) shall have a front yard consisting of at least twenty five feet (25').
2.   Setback From Rights Of Way: All buildings shall be set back at least
twenty five feet (25') from a right of way line (public or private) abutting a
development parcel. Such setback may overlap or be conterminous with, and not
in addition to, the zoning lot setback required pursuant to subsection A of
this section.
3.   Side And Rear Yards: No side or rear yard shall be required for
development parcels.
4.   Side And Rear Setbacks: Each development parcel shall maintain a rear
building setback of at least thirty feet (30') and at least one side building
setback of at least thirty feet (30'). Such setbacks may overlap or be
conterminous with, and not in addition to, the zoning lot setback required
pursuant to subsection A of this section.
C.   Specified Structures And Uses In Required Yards And Setbacks:
1.   General Landscaping Requirement For Yards: Except as expressly authorized
pursuant to subsection C2 of this section, all yards required pursuant to this
section shall consist of open space with landscaping approved by the Village as
part of the design approval process pursuant to section
10-2C-6.
2.   Permitted Obstructions In Yards And Setbacks: No obstructions shall be
placed or erected in any yard or setback except as expressly provided below:
a.   Awnings and canopies, projecting not more than two feet (2') into a
required yard.
b.   Fences, walls and hedges, utilized for decorative purposes in conformance
with an approved landscape plan.
c.   Signage, in conformance with subsection 10-10-14C of this title.
d.   Plant materials, in conformance with an approved landscape plan.
e.   Outdoor display pads, but not within the first twenty five feet (25') of
the front or corner side yard of a zoning lot, and in conformance with
subsection 10-6C-12C of this article.
f.   Outdoor vehicle display areas (other than outdoor display pads), but not
within the front or corner side yard of a zoning lot and not within the rear
twenty feet (20') of the rear yard of a zoning lot.
g.   Vehicle parking, but not within the front or corner side yard of a zoning
lot and not within the rear twenty feet (20') of the rear yard of a zoning lot.
Vehicle parking in yards shall be subject to design approval pursuant to
section 10-2C-20.
h.   Access roads running parallel to the lot line, but not within the front
yard of a development parcel or within the first twenty five feet (25') of the
front or corner side yard of a zoning lot, and only as depicted on an approved
design.
i.   Access roads running perpendicular to the lot line, but only as depicted
on an approved design. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-6C-12: OUTDOOR ACTIVITY RESTRICTIONS:
A.   Location Of Outdoor Vehicle Display Areas: Outdoor display or sales areas
shall not be located: 1) within the front or corner side yard of a zoning lot;
2) within the rear twenty feet (20') of the rear yard of a zoning lot; or 3)
within twenty five feet (25') of any public or private right of way.
B.   Landscaping And Screening Of Outdoor Display Areas: All outdoor display
and sales areas, when abutting a residential district, shall be suitably
landscaped and screened from the residential area.
C.   Outdoor Display Pads: Outdoor display pads shall not exceed twenty feet
(20') in diameter and shall consist of cement pads illuminated by metal halide
footlights. The pads shall be used for turntables to display new and used
transportation vehicles. No more than three (3) display pads for every one
permitted new transportation vehicle dealership franchise shall be allowed on
any one zoning lot. Display pads may be located in a required yard, but not
within the first twenty five feet (25') of the front or corner side yard of a
zoning lot. The placement and spacing of display pads shall be determined as
part of the design approval process pursuant to section
10-2C-6.
D.   Outdoor Storage: No equipment, material, stock, or parts shall be stored
or maintained outside of an enclosed structure; provided, however, that repair
and service vehicles may be parked in an appropriate designated outdoor parking
area for which screening has been approved as part of the design approval
process pursuant to section
10-2C-6.
E.   Repairs: All repairs and work of any kind on any vehicle shall be
conducted entirely within an enclosed building or structure. Charging or
changing of batteries for vehicles stored outdoors or other minimal repair work
to start a vehicle stored outdoors shall not be deemed repair work.
F.   Damaged Vehicles: All damaged or wrecked vehicles, not in an enclosed
building or structure, shall be parked in an area for which screening has been
approved as part of the design approval process pursuant to section
10-2C-6. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-6C-13: LOADING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE WAYS PROHIBITED:
No loading or unloading of vehicles shall take place on any public or private
right of way. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-6C-14: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
A.   General Requirements: Off street parking and off street loading facilities
shall be provided in accordance with this article for all buildings and
structures erected and all uses of land established in the automotive park
district. Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall be changed
to a new use, or whenever the intensity of use of any existing building,
structure or premises shall be increased through the addition of gross floor
area or seating capacity, or whenever any existing building is converted,
reconstructed or structurally altered for any of the purposes permitted in this
article, off street parking and off street loading facilities shall be provided
in accordance with this article to the same extent and as if said building or
structure were newly constructed.
B.   New And Used Transportation Vehicle Dealerships:
1.   A vehicle parking plan for any permitted dealership franchise or
establishment listed in subsections
10-6C-4A and B of this article shall be submitted for review and approval by
the Village as part of the design approval process pursuant to section
10-2C-6. The vehicle parking plan shall show areas designed for:
a.   Customer parking for sales;
b.   Customer parking and stacking for service of vehicles;
c.   Vehicle display areas;
d.   Vehicle storage of new vehicles;
e.   Storage of trade-in vehicles;
f.   Storage of damaged and/or wrecked vehicles; and
g.   Employee parking.
2.   One customer parking space per five hundred (500) square feet of indoor
sales floor area; one customer parking space per ten thousand (10,000) square
feet of outdoor sales area; and one parking space per two (2) employees shall
be provided. The minimum size of customer parking stalls shall be ten feet by
nineteen and one-half feet (10' x 191/2'). In addition, a minimum of one
hundred (100) square feet of area shall be provided for each parking stall for
maneuvering and access areas.
C.   Retail Supply And Service Uses:
1.   A vehicle parking plan for all retail supply and service uses not
accessory to a permitted use shall be submitted for review and approval by the
Village as part of the design approval process pursuant to section 10-2C-20.
2.   Off street parking shall be provided in the ratio of not less than:
 
Type Of Use                   Number Of Spaces Required
Automobile service stations   2 for each island of pumps and each service
                              stall, plus 1 for each 2 employees
                              Stacking spaces equal in number to 5 times the
                              maximum capacity of the automobile washing
                              facility for each wash rack, plus 1 space for
Automobile washing facilities each 2 employees. "Maximum capacity", in this
                              instance, shall mean the greatest number of
                              automobiles undergoing some phase of washing at
                              the same time
Commercial and/or retail uses 1 for each 200 square feet of gross floor area in
                              the building which is used for business purposes
 
D.   Accessory Uses: Off street parking for accessory uses shall be provided in
the ratio of not less than:
 
Type Of Use                Number Of Spaces Required
Office uses                1 for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                           the building which is used for office purposes
Restaurants                1 for each 100 square feet of gross floor area in
                           the building which is used for restaurant purposes
                           1 for each 600 square feet of gross floor area in
Warehouse and storage uses the building which is used for warehouse or storage
                           purposes
 
(Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
10-6C-15: SIGNAGE:
Except as expressly provided in this article, all signage shall be in strict
conformance with the signage regulations set forth in subsection 10-10-14C of
this title. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-6C-16: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Performance standards shall be the same as provided in the light industry
district (L-1) regulations. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT (L-1)
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Permitted And Special Uses
10-7A-3: Building Height
10-7A-4: Lot Area, Width And Coverage
10-7A-5: Yards/Setbacks
10-7A-6: Parking And Loading
10-7A-7: Performance Standards
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The objective of this article is to provide adequate space in suitable
locations for certain types of light industrial operations so as to protect and
strengthen the economic base of the Village as well as the value of real estate
throughout the Village while also protecting established residential and other
areas and the health and comfort of persons living therein by imposing
appropriate regulations to prevent offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odors, heat, glare, fire hazards and other objectionable results and to protect
the Light Industry District from incompatible uses of land by prohibiting the
use of such space for residential development. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
No building or lot shall be used within the Light Industry District (L-1) for
any purpose except those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning
use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-7A-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of two (2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty two feet (32') in height;
provided, however, penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and
maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, radio and television aerials or antennas, wireless
masts, or similar structures may be erected, notwithstanding the provisions of
this title, above the height limits herein prescribed; provided, however, that
such height additions shall not exceed ten feet (10') of the height limit
herein provided when erected in accordance with all other ordinances of the
Village; and provided further, that all ventilating fans, tanks, heating
equipment, cooling towers and similar equipment shall be screened from view
with screening as approved by the Architectural Board of Review. (Ord. 2018-31,
12-10-2018)
10-7A-4: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND COVERAGE:
No building shall hereafter be erected on any lot having a total area of less
than one acre (43,560 square feet), nor less than one hundred twenty five feet
(125') in width. The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings including
accessory buildings shall be not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of
the lot on which a building permit has been issued. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7A-5: YARDS/SETBACKS:
A.   Front Yard/Setback:
1.   Definition: For purposes of this section, the word "setback" is used
interchangeably with the words "front yard", and is defined as the minimum
horizontal distance between the street wall of the building as extended to the
side lot lines of the lot and front street line.
2.   General Requirements:
a.   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than seventy five
feet (75') wherein there shall be no structure of any kind, open storage, or
materials or equipment of any kind.
b.   Except as hereinafter provided, no parking of vehicles shall be allowed in
the front yard.
c.   Front yard setbacks shall be provided for each side of a corner lot
bordering on a public or private roadway.
d.   The front yard of a through lot in the L-1 District located on a U.S. or
State public highway shall be the front of the lot bordering on the street
opposite the U.S. or State public highway.
e.   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this title, the front yard of a
through lot abutting a U.S. or State public highway shall be not less than
fifty feet (50') in depth, and a yard of not less than one hundred feet (100')
in depth shall be provided on the U.S. or State public highway frontage, and on
all other through lots, a front and rear yard of seventy five feet (75') will
be provided.
3.   Special Conditions: Notwithstanding any of the provisions contained
herein, where any lot abuts upon a U.S. or State public highway, there shall be
a minimum setback from any such highway of not less than one hundred feet
(100') for each side bordering or abutting on such highway.
B.   Side Yards: On each side of a building or buildings, there shall be a side
yard having a width of thirty feet (30') or ten percent (10%) of the width of
the lot, whichever is greater. For purposes of this article, the side yard
shall be designed to be an open, unoccupied space on the same lot of a
building, between the building and the side of the lot and extending from the
rear line of the front yard to the rear lot line.
C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts upon a
Residential or local Business District, in which case, there shall be a rear
yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7A-6: PARKING AND LOADING:
A.   Storage And Loading:
   1.   Storage areas for all equipment, raw materials, products, parts,
assembled, fabricated or processed products of every nature and description and
all loading or unloading thereof shall be wholly within an enclosed building.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following regulations apply to the area
north of State Route 176 and east of U.S. Route 41.
      a.   Loading or unloading areas do not need to be wholly enclosed within
a building provided that the vehicle does not extend into the right- of-way
while being loaded or unloaded.
      b.   Outdoor storage areas are permitted provided the outdoor storage
area is reviewed and approved by the Architectural Board of Review, whose
review may include, but is not limited to, location, landscaping, buffering,
and fencing.
      (1)   Guidelines For Outdoor Storage:
         (A)   Any outdoor storage must be screened from view, typically with
an opaque fence, wall, or landscaping.
         (B)   Outdoor storage areas must be located to the rear of the lot.
         (C)   Outdoor storage areas must be surfaced with an all- weather,
dust-free material and graded to drain all surface water.
         (D)   Outdoor storage areas must be maintained in a clean, sanitary,
and safe condition that prevent harborage of rodents or similar pests.
         (E)   No hazardous materials or toxic substances may be stored in an
outdoor storage area.
      (2)   Authority To Modify Guidelines: The Architectural Board of Review,
as part of its approval for the outdoor storage area, may modify or waive any
of the guidelines set forth in subsection b.
   2.   Entrances and exits to such loading, unloading and storage areas shall
be located on the rear of the building not less than fifty feet (50') back from
the front street wall of the building.
   3.   Loading areas for through lots shall be located only on the side of the
building.
B.   Parking:
   1.   Definition: For purposes of this subsection, a "parking space" is
defined as ground area for one car, plus that needed for maneuvering, access
and parking.
   2.   Size: Circulation aisles and parking stall dimensions shall be the same
as provided in the Central Business District regulations set forth in
subsection
10-6A-8B2e of this title for circulation aisles and subsection
10-6A-8B2g of this title for parking stall dimensions.
   3.   Number Of Spaces:
      a.   Whenever any building, other than one constructed and used
exclusively for warehouse purposes, is erected for any of the uses permitted in
this district, there shall be a parking area of sufficient size to provide not
less than one parking space for each six hundred (600) square feet of the total
floor area of the building or buildings, including all accessory buildings
erected on the lot. All parking spaces required to service buildings or uses in
this district shall be located only on the same lot as the building or use
served. Notwithstanding anything contained in this title to the contrary, if
the parking requirements or any use in this district exceeds a ratio of one
parking space for each six hundred (600) square feet of the total floor area as
hereinbefore defined, additional parking spaces shall be provided on the lot on
which the use is situated. These requirements shall also apply in the event of
a change of use of the property from one business activity to another.
      b.   For buildings constructed and used exclusively for warehouse
purposes, all requirements of this title shall apply; except, that one parking
space shall be provided for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of the total
floor area of the building or buildings, including all auxiliary buildings
constructed on the lot, or one space per officer, employee, director, and user,
whichever is greater; provided further, that said ratio shall be one parking
space per six hundred (600) square feet for office areas in warehouses serving
the particular warehouse.
   4.   Location:
      a.   Except as hereinafter provided, all required parking shall be
located to the rear of the rear building line but not that portion to the rear
of the rear building line falling within the side yard as hereinbefore
described, nor in any instance closer than twenty feet (20') to any adjoining
property zoned for residential use and no closer than five feet (5') to any
other zoned lot including the Light Industry District (L-1).
      b.   Spaces in excess of required parking may be located within a
building or on that portion of the side yard as hereinbefore defined which is
located to the rear of the rear building line; provided, that no parking spaces
or access driveways shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') to any
adjoining lot zoned for residential use or closer than ten feet (10') to any
other adjoining lot; provided further, that such parking may not be provided
closer than fifty feet (50') to any lot line bordering or abutting a U.S. or
State public highway.
      c.   Notwithstanding any of the requirements contained herein, the
Architectural Board of Review may, upon request by the owner of the land
affected, permit the placement of required parking on either the side yard or
rear yard of any lot in the Light Industry District. In addition thereto,
spaces marked and designated for visitor or executive parking may be provided
as follows:
      (1)   Parking shall be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from the
front lot line, or fifty feet (50') from the front line where it borders or
abuts a U.S. or State public highway.
      (2)   Executive or visitor parking shall be permitted in side yards,
subject to the following restrictions and regulations:
         (A)   Executive or visitor parking may be provided on a side yard
abutting a U.S. or State public highway; provided, however, that parking is
prohibited within fifty feet (50') of any lot line bordering or abutting on
such highway.
         (B)   Parking spaces on the side yard shall be limited to the maximum
number that would be permitted if such parking were located in the front yard
setback.
         (C)   Such parking spaces shall be located adjacent to the building on
the lot, and parking area and access lanes therefor shall not exceed thirty
feet (30') in width, provided further, no access driveways shall be located
closer than ten feet (10') to any adjoining lot.
   5.   Illumination: All areas used for parking shall be effectively
illuminated from dusk to dawn when any industrial activity is being conducted.
Such illumination shall be directed away from any adjoining property or
adjoining street and approved by the Village Architectural Board of Review.
   6.   Drainage: All parking areas shall be adequately drained by connections
to storm sewers.
   7.   Side Yard Area Parking: All side yard area parking shall be screened
from the street(s). In addition, sufficient screening shall be provided along
the access lanes to accomplish this purpose. All parking areas adjacent to
residential areas shall be screened. Front yard executive parking shall be
screened in a "park like" atmosphere when located on a U.S. or State public
highway. The word "screening", as used herein, shall mean a compact evergreen
hedge which will mature, within five (5) years, to a height of not less than
four feet (4') nor more than eight feet (8') or an equivalent approved by the
Architectural Board of Review. All areas not used for building, parking or
driveways shall be planted in grass. All areas planted in grass shall be
maintained and mowed. No grass shall be allowed to grow in excess of six inches
(6") in height.
   8.   Access: Parking areas shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway of
such width and design as to provide safe and efficient means of vehicular
access to and egress from the parking areas. Curb cuts shall be of such size as
is required and determined by the Village Engineer.
   9.   Architectural Board Of Review Determinations:
      a.   The Architectural Board of Review is empowered to determine areas on
a lot which may be used for parking purposes, illumination therefor, and
substitutes for required type and placement of screening. In making such
determinations, the following standards are prescribed:
      (1)   Parking requirements may not be reduced.
      (2)   Executive parking standards and requirements may not be changed.
      (3)   Side yards and/or rear yard parking areas may be interchanged, but
not reduced. However, in the event any side yard parking is permitted, no
further enlargement or construction of any building shall be allowed unless the
enlargement or construction of the building and parking areas provided are made
in accordance with the standards provided for herein and as approved by the
Architectural Board of Review.
      b.   In considering such matters, proper attention will be given to
maintenance of the tax base of the Village, public health, safety, convenience,
comfort, morals, prosperity and the general welfare of the public, the effect
of any decision upon surrounding property and the intent of this article to
maintain an aesthetically pleasing park like atmosphere, and the maintenance of
the value of the property within the surrounding area.
C.   Construction Requirements: All areas used for off street parking, and
access lanes thereto, and to loading dock facilities shall be constructed of
the same material or materials as specified in subsection 10-6A-8B2c of this
title. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987; amd. Ord. 96-19, 7-9-1996; Ord. 2018-31, 12-10-
2018; Ord. 2025-17, 6-9-2025)
10-7A-7: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
A.   Noise: It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or any person to cause
or permit, continue, or cause to be made any excessive, unnecessary or
unusually loud noise which either annoy, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, health, peace or safety of others within the Village.
B.   Sound Level:
1.   The maximum sound pressure level in the L-1 District shall not exceed
seventy five (75) dB at any time. Whenever an applicable Federal, State or
other governmental body or agency having jurisdiction sets a different limit,
the lower limitation shall apply.
2.   The sound pressure level, to be measured as described below, shall not
exceed the following decibel levels in the designated octave bands when
adjacent to the designated types of use in the district:
                              Sound Level In Decibels
Octave Band Cycles Per Second Along All Residential Local Business And O&R
                              Districts             Districts
                              Sound Level In Decibels
Octave Band Cycles Per Second Along All Residential Local Business And O&R
                              Districts             Districts
0 to 75                       60                    73
76 to 150                     60                    69
151 to 300                    50                    65
301 to 600                    46                    59
601 to 1,200                  40                    53
1,201 to 2,400                33                    47
2,401 to 4,800                26                    41
Over 4,800                    20                    35
 
3.   Measurement of sound or noise shall be made with a sound level meter
meeting the standards prescribed by the American National Standards Institute.
The slow meter response of the sound level meter shall be used in order to best
determine that the average amplitude has not exceeded the limiting noise level
set forth in the table set out in subsection B2 of this section. Measurements
of noise level shall be made without the property lines of the property from
which such noise is generated, and shall be taken at least four feet (4') above
ground level.
4.   Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature, beat, frequency or
shrillness, which are not easily measured, shall be controlled so as not to
become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
5.   Exempt from the noise requirements set forth herein shall be ambulances,
fire and police vehicles, and other warning devices activated during an
emergency, and lawn mowers, power saws and power equipment when used for
property maintenance during permitted hours of operation.
C.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or dusts by any
activity on the property in an amount sufficient to create a general nuisance
to adjoining properties is prohibited. The total emission of smoke and
particulate matter shall be limited to the following:
Ringelmann Requirements: All smoke, and the emission of all other particulate
matter, in quantities sufficient to produce an opacity at any point greater
than Ringelmann 1 is prohibited. The only exception shall be a plume consisting
entirely of condensed steam. A "Ringelmann 1 unit" is defined as twenty percent
(20%) density for one minute. No more than fifteen (15) units of Ringelmann
smoke shall be permitted per hour and no smoke more intense than Ringelmann 1;
except, that during one hour of a twenty four (24) hour day, thirty (30) units
of smoke may be emitted but no smoke more intense than Ringelmann 2. The total
quantity of emitted solids shall not exceed one pound per hour, per acre of lot
area, or exceed 0.2 grain per cubic foot of flue gas at a stack, temperature of
five hundred degrees (500°) and fifty percent (50%) excess air, and shall not
cause damage to the health of people, animals, vegetation, or other forms of
property, or cause excessive soiling to any property including the buildings on
the site where the emissions occur, as well as sidewalks, driveways, streets,
parking or outdoor storage areas, and automobiles, vehicles, and equipment
located, parked, or stored thereon. These provisions shall apply to gray smoke
as well as visible smoke of any color, but with equivalent apparent opacity.
D.   Odors: No odor shall be emitted by any use permitted in the L-1 District
in such quantities as to be readily detectable by an average observer at any
point on the boundary line of the premises or beyond.
E.   Noxious Gases: Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases, fumes or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be
hooded or otherwise suitably enclosed, to prevent their release. The emission
of noxious, unpleasant gases or other odorous matter shall not be permitted as
to be offensive either within or without the facility from which they are
emitted.
F.   Glare And Heat: Operations producing intense light or heat shall be
performed within an enclosed building and not be visible beyond any lot line
bounding the property whereon the use is conducted.
G.   Vibrations:
1.   No uses shall be located and no equipment shall be installed in such a way
as to produce intense, earthshaking vibrations which are noticeable at the
property lines of the subject premises or which impact in any way upon any
structure or building either on or off the site.
2.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, no use shall
exist or continue to exist which in any way violates any other ordinance of the
Village, or the laws, statutes or codes of the State of Illinois or the United
States or any regulatory body or agency thereof having jurisdiction. (Ord. 87-
38, 12-14-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE B. LIMITED LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT (L-2)
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Conditions On Special Uses
10-7B-4: Building Height
10-7B-5: Lot Area, Width And Coverage
10-7B-6: Yards/Setbacks
10-7B-7: Loading
10-7B-8: Parking
10-7B-9: Performance Standards
10-7B-1: PURPOSE:
The objective of this article is to provide adequate space in suitable
locations for light industrial operations of a category and classification
requiring larger tracts of land than that required in the light industry
district (L-1) and also for certain industrial operations which require large
tracts of land and are unsuitable for location in the central business district
of the village. No building shall be constructed in this district on any tract
of land, regardless of its area, unless and until the tract is included in a
subdivision approved pursuant to the village subdivision control ordinance.
(Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987; amd. 2009 Code)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building or lot shall be used within the limited light industry district (L-
2) for any purpose except those permitted and special uses identified in the
zoning use table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-7B-3: CONDITIONS ON SPECIAL USES:
All special use permits in the L-2 district are subject to each of the
following conditions:
A.   Retail commercial operations are permitted as a special use only on tracts
of land not less than five (5) acres.
B.   Retail automobile sales, service and repairs, and limited used car sales
operations operated in conjunction with new retail automobile dealerships, are
permitted as a special use only on tracts of land of not less than seven (7)
acres.
C.   No yard, height, width and other requirements of the limited light
industry district, excepting storage of automobiles, shall be lessened for any
special use granted hereunder.
D.   No special use permit shall be granted unless the parcel or tract of land
is in a subdivision approved by the village containing a certificate thereon,
signed and acknowledged by the owner of the land subdivided that the premises
shall be subject to the regulations, conditions thereof and said regulations,
restrictions and conditions shall be deemed covenants running with the land as
part of a general plan of development.
E.   Minimum setback whether front yard, side yard, or rear yard shall be one
hundred feet (100') for that portion of a lot or tract of land abutting on U.S.
Route 41. Setback as used herein includes that required as well as any setback
provided in excess of one hundred feet (100'). Said setback shall remain open
and unobstructed, and no storage of materials or equipment shall be permitted
thereon. Parking, storage, or display of automobiles shall be strictly
prohibited from said required or provided setback and no ingress or egress to
or from U.S. Route 41, whether direct, indirect, temporary or permanent shall
be permitted.
F.   That portion of the premises adjacent or abutting upon U.S. Route 41 shall
be suitably landscaped and screened.
G.   Banners, other than temporary banners at new car announcement time or as
approved by the architectural board of review, pennants, string lights,
searchlights, outside neon signs, flashing signs, and outdoor advertising
signs, other than business identification signs identifying the special use and
specified by the manufacturer shall be prohibited. Lighting of the premises
shall not be glaring in character and shall not cause any traffic hazard or
nuisance.
H.   All building, lighting and landscaping plans shall be approved by the
architectural board of review before any construction is permitted.
I.   Any restrictive and protective conditions set forth in subsection 10-4-2E
of this title that may be deemed necessary, proper or suitable may be imposed.
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-7B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Height regulations in the L-2 district shall be identical to those contained in
the light industry district with the exception that all rooftop structures,
including those for heating, ventilating, mechanical equipment, ductwork,
furnaces, condensers and fans, shall be effectively screened from view at
existing or contemplated elevations. Screening shall be so designed as to be in
harmony and blend with the architecture of the building. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-
1987)
10-7B-5: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND COVERAGE:
No building shall be hereafter erected on any lot having a total area of less
than five (5) acres (217,800 square feet), nor less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') in width. The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings
including accessory buildings shall be not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
area of the lot on which a building permit has been issued. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-
1987)
10-7B-6: YARDS/SETBACKS:
A.   Front Yard/Setback:
1.   Definition: For the purposes of this subsection, the word "setback" is
used interchangeably with the words "front yard", and is defined as the minimum
horizontal distance between the street wall of the building as extended to the
side lot lines of the lot and front street line.
2.   Requirements:
a.   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than one hundred
feet (100') wherein there shall be no structure of any kind, open storage, or
materials or equipment of any kind.
b.   Except as hereinafter provided, no parking of vehicles shall be allowed in
the front yard.
c.   Front yard setbacks shall be provided for each side of a corner or through
lot bordering on a public or private roadway.
B.   Side Yards: On each side of a building or buildings, there shall be a side
yard having a width of fifty feet (50') or fifteen percent (15%) of the width
of the lot, whichever is greater. For purposes of this subsection, the side
yard shall be designed to be an open, unoccupied space on the same lot of a
building between the building and the side of the lot and extending from the
rear line of the front yard to the rear lot line. No driveways or parking shall
be permitted on the required side yard.
C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of thirty feet (30') or five percent (5%) of the
depth of the lot, whichever is greater, shall be provided. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-
1987)
10-7B-7: LOADING:
Loading requirements shall be the same as provided in the light industry
district regulations. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7B-8: PARKING:
Parking requirements shall be the same as provided in the light industry
district regulations. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7B-9: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Performance standards shall be the same as provided in the light industry
district regulations. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
ARTICLE C. SERVICE DISTRICT (S)
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Purpose
10-7C-2: Permitted Uses
10-7C-3: Building Height
10-7C-4: Lot Area, Width And Coverage
10-7C-5: Yards
10-7C-6: Loading And Storage
10-7C-7: Parking
10-7C-8: Performance Standards
10-7C-1: PURPOSE:
The objective of the service district (S) is to provide adequate space in
appropriate locations for certain light industrial activities as defined in the
light industry district regulations of this chapter and which cannot be carried
on wholly within enclosed buildings, but which must fully comply with the
performance standards established herein. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building or lot shall be used within the service district (S) for any
purpose except those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning use
table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-7C-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The height regulations are the same as those in the light industry district.
(Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7C-4: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND COVERAGE:
No building shall be hereafter erected on any lot having a total area of less
than three (3) acres (130,680 square feet), nor less than two hundred feet
(200') in width. The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings including
accessory buildings shall be not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of
the lot on which a building permit has been issued. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7C-5: YARDS:
The front yard, side yard and rear yard setback regulations are the same as
those in the light industry district. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7C-6: LOADING AND STORAGE:
A.   On the same lot with every building or part thereof, erected hereafter,
there shall be provided on the lot adequate space for motor vehicles and the
loading thereof, in order to avoid undue interference with the public use of
streets and alleys.
B.   The total area of land occupied by all buildings and used for outside
loading and storage of vehicles, equipment, supplies and materials shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total area of the lot.
C.   The height to which any materials, equipment or other objects may be
stored within the storage area shall be limited to not more than twelve feet
(12').
D.   All areas used for outside storage and loading shall be contiguous and
completely screened on all sides from outside view by the erection and
maintenance of a permanent, substantial and completely opaque fence or other
suitable barrier not less than eight feet (8') in height. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-
1987)
10-7C-7: PARKING:
The parking regulations are the same as those in the light industry district;
except, that all spaces for parking cars of employees shall be located within
the area in which storage and loading is permitted. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7C-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Performance regulations are the same as those in the light industry district.
(Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
ARTICLE D. RAILROAD DISTRICT (R)
SECTION:
10-7D-1: Purpose
10-7D-2: Permitted Uses
10-7D-3: Parking
10-7D-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of this article is:
A.   To promote and to protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience and the general welfare of the people by limiting the use of lands
and structures owned or occupied by railroad companies as of July 23, 1962, to
railroad uses or uses incidental thereto;
B.   To prohibit public uses, buildings or structures which are incompatible
with the character of development or the permitted uses within the railroad
district;
C.   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures,
so far as is possible and appropriate in such district, by regulating the use
thereof; and
D.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-7D-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building or lot shall be used within the railroad district (R) for any
purpose except those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning use
table at section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010)
10-7D-3: PARKING:
The parking regulations shall be identical to those contained in the light
industry district, being subsection 10-7A-6B of this chapter; with the
exception, that the number of spaces to be provided for railroad passenger
stations shall be one space for each commuter from Lake Bluff based upon
average ridership on normal business days computed on a monthly basis for the
highest month in a year; and provided further, that should any other activity
be located within a railroad passenger station, additional spaces shall be
provided in accordance with the activity located therein, as computed under the
central business district regulations of this title. (Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987;
amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMITIES 1
SECTION:
10-8-1: Nonresidential Nonconformities
10-8-2: Residential Nonconformities
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 10-9-8 and
  10-10-11 of this title.
10-8-1: NONRESIDENTIAL NONCONFORMITIES:
A.   Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of this section shall apply to
all nonresidential districts and nonresidential uses in residential districts.
B.   Exception For Repairs Pursuant To Public Order: Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe condition
of a structure in accordance with an order of a public official who is charged
with protecting the public safety and who declares such structure to be unsafe
and orders its restoration to a safe condition.
C.   Nonconforming Structures And Uses:
1.   Repair And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental repair or
replacement and installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing
partitions, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing may be performed on any nonconforming
structure.
2.   Structural Alteration: A nonconforming structure may be structurally
altered if, and only if, such alteration does not violate subsections C3
through C9 of this section and: a) does not create any new bulk regulation or
other nonconformity; or b) increase the degree of any existing bulk regulation
or other nonconformity of such structure.
3.   Enlargement Of Structure: The enlargement or addition to any structure
shall not create any new bulk regulation or other nonconformity or increase the
degree of any existing bulk regulation or other nonconformity of such
structure.
4.   Extension Of Use: A nonconforming use of land or of a structure shall not
be extended, expanded, enlarged, or increased in intensity. Such prohibited
activity shall include, without limitation:
a.   An extension of such use, including its accessory uses, to any structure
or land area other than that occupied by such nonconforming use on March 9,
1999, or any amendment hereto that causes such use to become nonconforming.
b.   An extension of such use, including its accessory uses, within a building
or other structure to any portion of the floor area that was not occupied by
such nonconforming use on March 9, 1999, or any amendment hereto that causes
such use to become nonconforming.
5.   Moving Structure:
a.   No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part, for any
distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot unless
the entire structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to all
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after being so moved.
b.   No nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in part, for any
distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot, unless
such use shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located after being so moved.
6.   Change In Use: A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any use other
than a use permitted in the zoning district in which the use is located. When
such a nonconforming use has been changed to a permitted use, it shall not
thereafter be changed back to any nonpermitted use. For purposes of this
subsection C6, a use shall be deemed to have been so changed when an existing
nonconforming use shall have been terminated and a permitted use shall have
commenced and continued for a period of thirty (30) days. Any change of use in
violation of this subsection C6 shall be deemed to be an abandonment of the
lawfully existing nonconforming use.
7.   Damage Or Destruction:
a.   More Than Fifty Percent: If all or any part of a nonconforming structure
is damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or
more of its replacement value at that time, then the structure shall not be
restored or rebuilt unless the structure, including foundation, and the use of
the structure shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
b.   Less Than Fifty Percent: If all or any part of a nonconforming structure
is damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of less than fifty percent
(50%) of its replacement value at that time, then such nonconforming structure
may be repaired or restored and the nonconforming use may continue subject to
the regulations of this section; provided, however, that no repairs or
restoration shall be made that would create any new bulk regulation or other
nonconformity or that would increase the degree of any bulk regulation or other
nonconformity existing prior to such damage or destruction. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, all such repairs and restorations shall be in strict conformity with
the applicable zoning district regulations unless a building permit is obtained
and restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of such damage
or destruction and is diligently pursued to completion within two (2) years
after such date.
c.   Calculation Of Extent Of Damage: The extent of damage, for purposes of
this subsection C7, shall be established by estimates made by the building
commissioner. An appeal from the decision of the building commissioner may be
taken by the owner or agent of the property involved pursuant to section
10-2C-3 of this title.
8.   Vertical And Horizontal Extension: For purposes of this section, the
vertical or horizontal extension of a nonconforming structure shall be
construed to increase the degree of the existing nonconformity of the
structure, unless such vertical or horizontal extension conforms to all
applicable bulk regulations of this title, or unless such vertical or
horizontal extension consists solely of a chimney.
9.   Termination By Abandonment:
a.   Whenever a nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming use of a structure
is discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days, regardless of any intent to
resume or not to terminate such use, such use shall be deemed abandoned and
shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed. Any subsequent use or
occupancy of such land or structure shall comply with all regulations of the
zoning district in which such land or structure is located.
b.   Any period of such discontinuance caused by government action, strikes,
material shortages, or acts of God, and without any contributing fault by the
nonconforming user, shall not be considered in calculating the length of
discontinuance for purposes of this subsection C9.
D.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses And Structures: No use or structure that is
accessory to a principal nonconforming use or structure shall continue after
such principal use or structure has been terminated, unless such accessory use
or structure shall thereafter conform to all of the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
E.   Nonconforming Lots.
1.   Any unimproved lot that becomes a nonconforming lot as a result of
condemnation, eminent domain, sale, or by transfer or conveyance in any manner
shall not be improved with a building or structure of any kind.
2.   The existing use of an improved lot, the area, width, or yards of which
are reduced below that permitted by the zoning district in which such lot is
located as a result of condemnation, eminent domain, sale, or by transfer or
conveyance in any manner, shall constitute a violation of this title, and such
use shall be immediately terminated and the building or improvements thereon
removed within sixty (60) days after such lot or parcel of land is so reduced
in area, width, or yard, and thereafter, said lot shall be a nonconforming lot
and unusable for any purpose. (Ord. 99-6, 3-8-1999; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2022-
38, 12-12-2022)
10-8-2: RESIDENTIAL NONCONFORMITIES:
A.   Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of this section shall apply to
all residential districts and residential uses in nonresidential districts.
B.   Exception For Repairs Pursuant To Public Order: Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe condition
of a structure in accordance with an order of a public official who is charged
with protecting the public safety and who declares such structure to be unsafe
and orders its restoration to a safe condition.
C.   Nonconforming Structures And Uses:
1.   Repair And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental repair or
replacement, and installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing
partitions, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing may be performed on any nonconforming
structure.
2.   Structural Alteration: A nonconforming structure may be structurally
altered if, and only if, such alteration does not violate subsections C3
through C8 of this section and does not create any new bulk regulation
nonconformity or increase the degree of any existing bulk regulation
nonconformity of such structure.
3.   Enlargement Of Structure: The enlargement or addition to any structure
shall not create any new bulk regulation nonconformity or increase the degree
of any existing bulk regulation nonconformity of such structure.
4.   Extension Of Use: A nonconforming use of land or of a structure shall not
be extended, expanded, enlarged, or increased in intensity. Such prohibited
activity shall include, without limitation:
a.   An extension of such use, including its accessory uses, to any structure
or land area other than that occupied by such nonconforming use on February 15,
1994, or any amendment hereto that causes such use to become nonconforming.
b.   An extension of such use, including its accessory uses, within a building
or other structure to any portion of the floor area that was not occupied by
such nonconforming use on February 15, 1994, or any amendment hereto that
causes such use to become nonconforming.
5.   Moving Structure:
a.   No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part, for any
distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot unless
the entire structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to all
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after being so moved.
b.   No nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in part, for any
distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot unless
such use shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located after being so moved.
6.   Change In Use: A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any use other
than a use permitted in the zoning district in which the use is located. When
such a nonconforming use has been changed to a permitted use, it shall not
thereafter be changed back to any nonpermitted use. For purposes of this
subsection C6, a use shall be deemed to have been so changed when an existing
nonconforming use shall have been terminated and a permitted use shall have
commenced and continued for a period of thirty (30) days. Any change of use in
violation of this subsection C6 shall be deemed to be an abandonment of the
lawfully existing nonconforming use.
7.   Damage Or Destruction:
a.   Natural Causes: If all or any part of a nonconforming structure is damaged
or destroyed to any extent, by any means not within the control of the owner
thereof, then such nonconforming structure may be repaired or restored and the
nonconforming use may continue subject to the regulations of this section;
provided, however, that no repairs or restorations shall be made that would
create any new bulk regulation nonconformity or that would increase the degree
of any bulk regulation nonconformity existing prior to such damage or
destruction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all such repairs and restorations
shall be in strict conformity with the applicable zoning district regulations
unless a building permit is obtained and restoration is actually begun within
one year after the date of such damage or destruction and is diligently pursued
to completion.
b.   Within Control Of Owner: If a nonconforming structure is damaged,
destroyed, or torn down by any means within the control of the owner thereof,
to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of replacement of
such structure new, exclusive of foundation, then such structure shall not be
restored or rebuilt unless the structure, including the foundation, and use of
the structure shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
8.   Vertical And Horizontal Extension: For purposes of this section, the
vertical or horizontal extension of a nonconforming structure shall be
construed to increase the degree of the existing nonconformity of the
structure, unless such vertical or horizontal extension conforms to all
applicable bulk regulations of this title or unless such vertical or horizontal
extension consists solely of a chimney.
9.   Termination By Abandonment:
a.   Whenever a nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming use of a structure
is discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days, regardless of any intent to
resume or not to terminate such use, such use shall be deemed abandoned and
shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed. Any subsequent use or
occupancy of such land or structure shall comply with all regulations of the
zoning district in which such land or structure is located.
b.   Any period of such discontinuance caused by government action, strikes,
material shortages, or acts of God, and without any contributing fault by the
nonconforming user, shall not be considered in calculating the length of
discontinuance for purposes of this subsection C9.
D.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses And Structures: No use or structure that is
accessory to a principal nonconforming use or structure shall continue after
such principal use or structure has been terminated unless such accessory use
or structure shall thereafter conform to all of the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located.
E.   Nonconforming Lots.
1.   Any unimproved lot that becomes a nonconforming lot as a result of
condemnation, eminent domain, sale, or by transfer or conveyance in any manner
shall not be improved with a building or structure of any kind.
2.   The existing use of an improved lot, the area, width, or yards of which
are reduced below that permitted by the zoning district in which such lot is
located as a result of condemnation, eminent domain, sale, or by transfer or
conveyance in any manner, shall constitute a violation of this title, and such
use shall be immediately terminated and the building or improvements thereon
removed within sixty (60) days after such lot or parcel of land is so reduced
in area, width, or yard, and thereafter, said lot shall be a nonconforming lot
and unusable for any purpose.
3.   Exception for Nonconforming Lots of Record: Notwithstanding the
regulations imposed by any other provisions of this title, a nonconforming lot
of record that has been created by a properly recorded plat or deed may be
utilized in the same manner and to the same extent as any conforming lot in the
district in which such nonconforming lot of record is located if, and only if:
a.   The nonconforming lot of record came into ownership separate from
adjoining lots of record unless the adjoining lots are separated, and remain
separated, only by a private road that existed prior to April 24, 2024; and
b.   Has remained in separate and individual ownership from adjoining lots of
record continuously since becoming a nonconforming lot of record unless the
adjoining lots are separated, and remain separated, only by a private road that
existed prior to April 24, 2024. (Ord. 94-2, 2-15-1994; amd. 2009 Code; Ord.
2022-38, 12-12-2022; Ord. 2024-10, 4-24-2024)
CHAPTER 9
FENCES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Permit Required
10-9-2: Prohibited Fences
10-9-3: Construction Standards
10-9-4: Height
10-9-5: Location
10-9-6: Reserved
10-9-7: Dangerous Fences
10-9-8: Nonconforming Fences
10-9-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No fence shall be erected or altered without obtaining, in advance, a permit
and paying a fee as set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "construction/building fees". (Ord.
2003-2, 1-27-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
10-9-2: PROHIBITED FENCES:
The following fences shall be prohibited:
A.   Barbed wire fences, except on parcels exceeding ten (10) acres where
domestic animals such as cattle and horses are kept; and
B.   Chainlink fences in any front yard, except on a lot owned or controlled by
any governmental entity, including a park or school district; and
C.   Electrically charged fences; and
D.   Permanent fences in any bluff or ravine pursuant to section
10-12-4 of this title; and
E.   Any fence that does not comply with this chapter. (Ord. 2003-2, 1-27-2003)
10-9-3: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
A.   All fences shall be constructed in accordance with the village building
code.
B.   The posts and support members of any fence, as well as the rough side of
the fence, shall be exposed to and face in towards the property being fenced,
and a smooth or finished side shall face the neighboring or adjoining property.
C.   No gate shall be located on a fence so as to swing open into a sidewalk,
street, alley, or across the property line.
D.   No fence shall be erected or maintained so as to impede or block
stormwater drainage flow pursuant to the villages watershed development
regulations.
E.   Fences shall be maintained in a safe, secure, neat, and orderly condition
at all times and in such a manner to prevent the development of any rust,
corrosion, rotting, or other deterioration in the physical appearance or safety
of the fence. The area around any fence shall be kept clean and free of all
rubbish and weeds.
F.   Temporary fences shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter,
except for temporary construction fences and fences required by the village
tree ordinance.
G.   Fences erected in a planned residential development (PRD) shall be subject
to the specific fence restrictions approved as part of the PRD approval
process. (Ord. 2003-2, 1-27-2003)
10-9-4: HEIGHT:
A.   Measurement: The height of a fence shall be measured from grade to the top
edge of the fence, including support structures; provided, however, that
ornamental post caps shall be permitted to extend above the maximum height of a
fence by no more than eight inches (8"), as depicted in section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 21; and provided further, that a fence may
exceed the maximum height permitted by this section by no more than three
inches (3") in order to provide open space between the bottom of the fence and
the ground below the fence for the purposes of drainage and the prevention of
rotting.
B.   Maximum Heights For Residential Properties:
1.   District Regulations:
a.   C-E district: Front, side, and rear yards, seven feet (7').
b.   E-1 district: Front, side, and rear yards, six feet (6').
c.   All other residential districts:
(1)   Front yard: Four feet (4').
(2)   Side yard: Six feet (6'), with the following exceptions:
(A)   No fence shall be erected and maintained at a height greater than four
feet (4') along that portion of the side yard that extends into the front yard
except as permitted in subsection B1c(2)(B) of this section; and
(B)   A fence erected along an interior side yard adjacent to and contiguous
with property located in a different zoning district may be erected at the
height permitted in the adjacent zoning district.
(3)   Rear yard: Six feet (6').
2.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding the height regulations contained in subsection
B1 of this section, the following height exceptions shall apply:
a.   Corner Lots: For any corner lot located in a residential district, the
following regulations shall apply:
(1)   No fence shall be erected and maintained at a height greater than two and
one-half feet (2.5') above the crown of any street within twenty five feet
(25') of the intersection of the two (2) intersecting street edges, as depicted
in section
10-13-1, illustration 21A, of this title.
(2)   No fence shall be erected and maintained at a height greater than four
feet (4') along the rear and side yards of a corner lot that is: a) located in
any residential district except the C-E or E-1 district; and b) is immediately
adjacent to the front yard of an adjacent property located in any residential
district except the C-E or E-1 district.
b.   Through Lots: For any through lot located in a residential district, no
fence shall be erected and maintained at a height greater than four feet (4')
when located within any required setback along the street.
c.   Highways: Notwithstanding the height restrictions for through lots
contained in subsection B2b of this section, a fence shall be permitted to be
erected:
(1)   At a height not to exceed six feet (6') if:
(A)   Located along a front or side yard directly adjacent to the following
highways in the following locations:
(i)   Green Bay Road, south of the Union Pacific Railroad crossing.
(ii)   West Scranton Avenue, from Sheridan Road to Green Bay Road; or
(B)   Located along a front, side, or rear yard directly adjacent to Illinois
Route 131 (Green Bay Road), from Route 176 to the northernmost boundary of the
village.
(2)   At a height not to exceed eight feet (8') if located along a front, side,
or rear yard directly adjacent to Route 41.
(3)   At a height not to exceed eight feet (8') if located along that portion
of the boundary between the village and North Chicago that separates the
Sanctuary Subdivision from an adjacent industrial use.
d.   Adjacent Buildings: No fence shall be erected and maintained at a height
greater than four feet (4') if located within three feet (3') of a building
wall located on adjacent property.
e.   Tennis Courts: Any fence enclosing a tennis court shall not exceed
fourteen feet (14') in height.
f.   Governmental Fences: Any chainlink fence on a lot owned or controlled by
any governmental entity, including a park or school district, shall not exceed
six feet (6') in height.
g.   Chainlink Fences: Except for fences enclosing tennis courts permitted by
subsection B2e of this section and fences on a lot owned or controlled by any
governmental entity permitted by subsection B2f of this section, no chainlink
fence shall be erected and maintained at a height greater than four feet (4').
h.   Businesses: Any business that operates within a residential district as a
legally nonconforming use may erect fencing up to six feet (6') in height for
the limited purpose of screening areas utilized for garbage, trash, and refuse
disposal as described in Section 10-4-2(H). Any fencing exceeding the otherwise
applicable height limit must be reviewed and approved by the Architectural
Board of Review pursuant to Section
10-2C-6.
C.   Maximum Height In Nonresidential Districts: No fence shall be erected and
maintained at a height greater than six feet (6') in any nonresidential
district. (Ord. 2003-2, 1-27-2003; amd. Ord. 2011-17, 9-26-2011; Ord. 2022-33,
11-14-2022; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-9-5: LOCATION:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter:
A.   No fence shall be erected and maintained closer than one foot (1') from
any sidewalk and five feet (5') from the edge of any street.
B.   Any fence enclosing a tennis court shall comply with the required setback
regulations for principal structures located in the zoning district in which
the fence is located.
C.   Any dog run shall comply with the required setback regulations for
accessory structures located in the zoning district in which the fence is
located. (Ord. 2003-2, 1-27-2003)
10-9-6: RESERVED:
(Repealed by Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-9-7: DANGEROUS FENCES:
Any fence that is determined by the building commissioner to constitute a
hazard to: a) pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicular traffic; b) the safety of
public or private property; or c) the public, shall immediately be removed or
reconstructed. (Ord. 2003-2, 1-27-2003)
10-9-8: NONCONFORMING FENCES:
Except for dangerous fences, any fence in existence as of the effective date
hereof that does not comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the nonconforming structure regulations contained in chapter 8 of
this title. (Ord. 2003-2, 1-27-2003)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose And Intent
10-10-2: Application Of Provisions
10-10-3: Sign Types And Definitions
10-10-4: Prohibited Signs
10-10-5: Computation Of Sign Area
10-10-6: Construction Requirements
10-10-7: Electrical Elements
10-10-8: Illumination Of Signs
10-10-9: Maintenance And Repair
10-10-10: Removal Of Signs
10-10-11: Nonconforming Signs
10-10-12: Illegal Signs
10-10-13: Signs Requiring Review By Village Administrator
10-10-14: Signs Requiring Review By Architectural Board Of Review
10-10-15: Action On Permit Application
10-10-16: Appeals
10-10-17: Permit Fees
10-10-18: Contents Of Application
10-10-19: Exemptions
10-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to promote and protect the public
health, safety, and welfare by:
A.   Recognizing that the reasonable display of signs is necessary as a public
service and necessary to the conduct of competitive commerce and industry by
creating a more attractive economic and business climate within the
nonresidential districts of the village.
B.   Reducing the depreciation of property values caused by signs that are
architecturally incompatible with surrounding land uses and/or buildings by
ensuring that all signs within the village are architecturally compatible with
existing land uses and/or buildings with regard to size, location, color,
construction, materials, and manner of display.
C.   Enhancing and protecting the physical appearance of all areas of the
village by prohibiting unsightly, dissimilar, inappropriate and excessive
numbers of signs.
D.   Protecting signs from obstructions by other signs.
E.   Restricting signs and signage lighting which increases the probability of
accidents by distracting attention or obstructing vision necessary for traffic
safety.
F.   Ensuring that signs enable the public to locate goods and services and
facilities in the village without difficulty or confusion.
G.   Recognizing that signs are a constant and very visible element of the
public environment and, as such, should meet the same high standards of quality
set for other forms of development in the village. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply generally and uniformly to all areas
and zoning districts within the village. The provisions of this chapter shall
be cumulative with other consistent provisions of this code and of the statutes
of the state of Illinois and the United States and, to the extent consistent,
shall be applied and enforced simultaneously. It is intended, in particular,
that the provisions of this chapter shall be applied cumulatively and
simultaneously with the provisions of the village subdivision regulations and
building codes and the provisions of this title, and no approvals or permits
issued pursuant to such regulations and codes shall be deemed to authorize the
erection, enlargement, expansion, alteration, operation, maintenance,
relocation, and removal of any sign within the village visible from any street,
sidewalk, or public or private common space without also complying with the
applicable provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-3: SIGN TYPES AND DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, words and phrases shall
have the meanings set forth herein. Terms, words and phrases used in this
chapter but not defined in this section shall be given the meanings ascribed to
them elsewhere in this title. All other words and phrases shall be given their
common, ordinary meanings, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
ADDRESS SIGN: Address numerals or other sign information required by law or by
governmental order, rule, or regulation.
APPLICANT: Any person desiring or required to submit a sign permit application
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
AUXILIARY SIGN: A sign containing security identification, hours of operation,
credit cards accepted, or entrance and exit identification, but not including a
sign that contains advertisement or product identification.
AWNING SIGN: A sign that is mounted or painted or attached to an awning,
canopy, or marquee that is otherwise permitted by this title. The term "awning
sign", as used herein, includes the awning, canopy, or marquee on which the
sign or message is placed or located.
BULLETIN BOARD SIGN: A sign used for the posting of events, notices, hours, or
related information.
BUSINESS NAMEPLATE SIGN: A nonilluminated nameplate or shingle denoting the
business name or an occupation legally conducted on the premises at which the
sign is located, typically constructed of metal or wood.
COMMUNITY GROUP PROMOTIONAL SIGN: A sign denoting an activity or an event to be
displayed on the village owned community bulletin boards.
DOOR SIGN: A sign painted, stenciled, or affixed on a door which is visible
from the exterior.
ELECTION PERIOD: The period between the date that an election ballot is
certified by the state board of elections and seven (7) days after that
election.
ELECTRONIC BUSINESS INFORMATION DISPLAY: A sign in the CBD district that is
permanently affixed to a building and contains a static electronic display
similar to a computer monitor or other LED type display that is used solely to
convey computer generated information concerning the goods or services of the
business located in the building.
EVENT SIGN: A sign announcing a noteworthy happening, social occasion or
activity.
GOVERNMENTAL SIGN: A sign erected and maintained pursuant to and in discharge
of any governmental function, or required by law or ordinances or governmental
regulation, including, without limitation, traffic signs or other similar
regulatory devices, legal notices, warnings at railroad crossings, and other
instructional or regulatory signs pertaining to health, hazards, parking,
swimming, dumping, and other emergency or nonadvertising signs.
GROUND SIGN: A freestanding sign erected at grade level and supported by one or
more uprights, or set firmly in or below the ground surface on an approved
foundation, or utilizing a short wall, and not attached to any building.
"Ground signs" specifically include, without limitation, monument signs,
foundation signs, pylon signs, pole signs, blades, and post signs. See the
illustrations in section
10-13-2 of this title.
HISTORIC MARKER SIGN: A commemorative plaque, memorial tablet, or emblem of an
official historical body, of a size, type, and location as approved by the
village board of trustees or other governmental entity with jurisdiction.
HOLIDAY DECORATION: A display of a primarily decorative nature, clearly
incidental and customary with traditionally accepted civic, patriotic or
religious holidays.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign characterized by the use of artificial light, either
projecting through its surface(s) (i.e., internally illuminated), reflecting
off of its surface(s) (i.e., externally illuminated) or projecting from behind
its surface(s) (i.e., backlit).
INCIDENTAL SIGN: A sign that is incidental to the primary use and is for public
information and direction, not for advertising purposes, including no parking,
entrance, exit, telephone, washrooms, and similar designations.
MUNICIPAL, SCHOOL, LIBRARY AND PARK DISTRICT SIGNS: Any permanent sign which is
not a governmental sign, erected and maintained pursuant to and in discharge of
the functions of the village of Lake Bluff, the Lake Bluff library district,
school district 65, school district 115, and the Lake Bluff park district.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign lawfully existing on April 23, 1996, or any
amendment hereto, that does not comply with all applicable regulations of this
chapter, or any such amendment hereto.
OFF SITE SIGN: A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service,
entertainment or attraction sold, offered, or existing on property other than
the lot where such sign is displayed or located.
OFFICIAL FLAG: A fabric, banner, or bunting, including any support or pole,
containing distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols and used as a symbol of a
government, political subdivision, or other entity or for decoration.
ON SITE DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign limited to the information and directions
necessary and convenient for persons coming on, and traveling through, a large
property or zoning lot, on which the names and locations of buildings are
given.
ON SITE INFORMATIONAL SIGN: A sign commonly associated with, and limited to,
the information and directions necessary and convenient for persons coming on
the property, including signs marking parking areas, one-way drives, pick up
and delivery areas, service areas, showrooms, drive-through, and similar
designations.
ON SITE SIGN: A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service,
entertainment or attraction sold, offered, or existing on the same lot where
such sign is displayed or located.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign that is affixed or installed for long term, and not
merely temporary, use, generally being for a period in excess of six (6)
months.
PERSON: Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
association, partnership, society, or any combination of human beings, whether
legal or natural.
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGN: A temporary sign announcing or supporting political
candidates or issues in connection with any national, state, or local election.
POLITICAL MESSAGE SIGN: A sign other than a political campaign sign expressing
a noncommercial message regarding an issue or a person of political or public
concern.
POLITICAL SIGN: A political campaign sign or a political message sign.
PORTABLE SIGN: A sign designed to be transported by means of wheels, a sign
converted to an "A" or "T" frame, a sign attached to a trailer, a menu or
sandwich board sign, or a sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and
visible from a street or public right of way.
PRIVATE SALE SIGN: A temporary sign advertising a private sale.
PROJECT IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign erected or located on a lot on which
construction is taking place and for which a valid building permit has been
issued and is in effect during the period of such construction, to be installed
prior to the start of construction and removed upon issuance of an occupancy
permit or upon substantial completion of the construction project if occupancy
is delayed after construction is completed, indicating the names of any or all
of the following: the architect(s), engineers, landscape architects,
contractors, or similar artisans, and the owners, financial supporters,
sponsors, or similar persons or firms having a role or interest in the
construction activity.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign attached to the wall of a building or structure, with
the exposed face(s) in a plane perpendicular to the building wall.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land that has been dedicated to and accepted by
a government agency for use for vehicular or pedestrian access or passage or
for installation of railroad tracks, utility lines or similar facilities.
PYLON/POLE SIGN: A ground sign that incorporates the use of a pole or poles or
a pylon to place the sign above grade level. Typically, pylon/pole signs are
used to achieve a greater height to width ratio and utilize one or two (2)
lengthy and bare poles. See the illustrations in section
10-13-2 of this title.
QUASI-PUBLIC ORGANIZATION: A nonprofit organization that is open to the public
and serves the general interests of the community and does not receive tax
dollars, including, without limitation, organizations such as chambers of
commerce, Kiwanis, Boy/Girl Scouts and Rotary clubs.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign that announces the sale or lease of real property,
including, without limitation, open house signs.
ROOF SIGN: A sign that is mounted or painted on any roof of a building, or
which is wholly dependent upon an exterior ceiling of a building for support,
generally perpendicular to a building's roof surface(s).
SIGN: Any visible identification, description, illustration, object, or device,
illuminated or nonilluminated, which directs attention to a product, service,
place, activity, person, institution, business, solicitation, or viewpoint, but
specifically excluding products typically displayed in the window(s) of
businesses.
SUBDIVISION SIGN: A sign that serves to identify a subdivision or development.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign that is not a permanent sign or a portable sign and that
is designed and intended to be displayed for a temporary and short, and not
permanent, period of time and is for a special, unique, limited activity,
product or sale.
TOTAL SURFACE AREA: The entire area within any continuous perimeter of a sign
that encloses the extreme limits of the writing, representations, emblem or
other figures, messages, display or background, together with any material or
color which is an integral part of the display or which is used to
differentiate the sign from the background against which it is placed.
WALL OR FASCIA SIGN: A sign that is attached to or painted on the wall surface
of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the building wall, including, but not limited to, signs affixed to
architectural projections that project from a building; provided, that the copy
area of such signs remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building
facade or to the faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign, picture, or symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about a product, service, place, activity, person,
institution, business, solicitation, or viewpoint, that is affixed to the
window glass or frame or placed inside a window so as to be visible from the
exterior of the building or structure in which the window is located. (Ord. 96-
27, 9-24-1996; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2011-17, 9-26-2011; Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-
2011; Ord. 2011-27, 12-19-2011)
10-10-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
A.   Prohibited Signs In All Districts: The following signs, and all other
signs not expressly permitted under this chapter or exempt from these
regulations, are prohibited in all districts and shall not be erected,
maintained, or, except as provided in section
10-10-11 of this chapter, permitted to continue in any district:
1.   Changeable message signs, blinking, flashing, fluttering, rotating lights,
or any illumination which has a change in lighting intensity, brightness or
color, except for holiday decorations on a temporary basis and except for such
temporary signs permitted in subsection
10-10-14C of this chapter.
2.   Undulating, swinging, rotating, or otherwise moving signs, pennants,
banners, flags, balloons, ribbons, streamers and spinners or similar devices in
view of any street or highway, except for temporary announcement signs pursuant
to subsection
10-10-19A of this chapter and except for such temporary signs permitted in
subsection
10-10-14C of this chapter.
3.   Signs utilizing colored lights at any location, or in any manner, where
they may be confused or construed as traffic control devices.
4.   Signs utilizing or located on parked or stationary vehicles including,
without limitation, trucks, cars, trailers, taxicabs and other vehicular
equipment, except for incidental signs painted or affixed to vehicles in the
customary manner of identifying the owner of a business.
5.   Signs of any nature affixed to any public or private tree, rock, or fire
hydrant, street pole, light pole, or similar structure, except for address and
government signs.
6.   Any permanent sign placed in a nonresidential district that does not
relate to the activity conducted on the lot on which it is located.
7.   Roof signs.
8.   Temporary illuminated signs, except for such temporary signs permitted in
subsection
10-10-14C of this chapter.
9.   Electronic business information displays, except for displays in the CBD
district that are approved by the village board pursuant to section
3-12-3 of this code and that are found by the village board, notwithstanding
any contrary provisions of this chapter, to comply with all of the following
restrictions:
a.   The maximum light level of the display unit does not exceed five hundred
(500) nit during daylight hours and three hundred fifty (350) nit at night;
b.   The size of the screen on the display unit does not exceed four hundred
(400) square inches in surface area and the display unit including the screen
does not exceed nine hundred (900) square inches in surface area;
c.   The depth of the display unit does not exceed six inches (6");
d.   The display unit is permanently affixed to the building exterior and no
fastening devices, posts, or supporting columns are visible;
e.   All wiring for the display unit, of any voltage, is contained within the
display itself or otherwise completely hidden from view;
f.   The display unit is consistent with the character of the CBD district;
g.   The display unit is installed entirely on private property and no part of
the display or any of its supporting structure or equipment may be located on
any portion of the public right of way;
h.   The display unit meets all applicable building codes and standards,
including, without limitation, title 9 of this code and the Americans with
disabilities act (ADA);
i.   The display unit is used only to provide information concerning the nature
of the business conducted at the specific location where the display unit is
installed, including, without limitation, the specific nature of the services
provided by and operation of the business at that location, and is not used to
convey any other type of information for any other purpose;
j.   The display unit does not generate or emanate any sound;
k.   The information provided on the display unit remains static while the
display unit is operating and does not flash, rotate, or otherwise change; and
l.   The times that the display unit may operate are subject to the review and
approval of the Village Board.
B.   Prohibited Signs In The Light Industry And Limited Light Industry
Districts: Projecting signs and portable signs are prohibited in the Light
Industry and Limited Light Industry Zoning Districts (L-1 and L-2). (Ord. 96-
27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-2011; Ord. 2019-29, 12-9-2019)
10-10-5: COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA:
The total surface area of a sign (which is also the sign area of a wall sign or
other sign with only 1 face) shall be computed by rounding to the nearest
square foot. The total surface area shall not include any supporting framework,
bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such elements are clearly incidental
to the display itself, unless otherwise specified herein. Where a sign has more
than one display face, all faces shall be included in determining the total
surface area of the sign. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-6: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Compliance With Building Code: The construction and structural components
of all signs shall be in accordance with the standards and regulations of the
Village Building Code.
B.   Wind Pressure; Dead Loads: All signs shall be attached, anchored, and/or
fastened so as to withstand wind pressure of at least thirty five (35) pounds
per square foot of surface area and of receiving dead loads based on the actual
weight of the structure, unless otherwise approved in advance and in writing by
the Village Building Commissioner. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-7: ELECTRICAL ELEMENTS:
A.   Compliance With Electrical Code: Any sign in which electrical wiring,
fittings, materials or connections are used shall be in accordance, at all
times, with the provisions of the most recent edition of the National
Electrical Code (NEC), as amended from time to time, a copy of which is on file
at the Village Hall pursuant to State Statute.
B.   Electrical Sign Permit Requirements:
1.   Prior to the issuance of a general sign permit for any such sign, the
applicant shall apply for and receive an electrical sign permit from the
Village Building Commissioner. Electrical sign permits shall be required for
all sign wiring.
2.   Prior to issuing an electrical sign permit, the Building Commissioner
shall examine the plans and specifications for all wiring and connections to
determine if the same comply with the NEC and all other applicable electrical
provisions of this Code. If the electrical sign permit does not comply with the
appropriate standards, the electrical sign permit shall be denied.
3.   Any electrical sign permit issued pursuant to this subsection may be
revoked or suspended by the Village Building Commissioner if the holder of the
permit violates the terms of the sign permit or any of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-8: ILLUMINATION OF SIGNS:
All illuminated signs shall conform to all requirements set forth in this
chapter and all of the following additional requirements:
A.   Illuminated signs in or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of property
located within a residential district shall not be illuminated between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. unless the
impact of such lighting beyond the boundaries of the lot on which the sign is
located is minor in nature and inconsequential.
B.   Illumination shall be installed or applied only through: 1) a translucent
surface; 2) recessed into the sign structure; and 3) if the light source is
external to the sign, directed to and concentrated solely on the sign. Wall
signs that are backlit shall be permitted to extend an additional three inches
(3") from the wall surface for the sole purpose of providing space for the
lighting apparatus. No sign shall be internally illuminated; except, that
portions of a sign containing lettering, a logo, or both, may be internally
illuminated only if all surfaces of the sign surrounding the internally
illuminated lettering or logo are opaque.
C.   The use of unshielded lights, including incandescent bulbs on or strung on
poles, wires, or any other type of support, to illuminate any sign or area in
the vicinity of any sign shall be prohibited. Floodlights, gooseneck reflectors
or other external sources of illumination shall be contained within a
protective casing.
D.   Signs shall be designed, located, shielded and shaded as necessary to
prevent casting a glare or direct light upon property located in any
residential district or upon any public street or park.
E.   Illumination shall be constant in intensity and color, and shall not
consist of flashing, animated, chasing, scintillating or other illumination
conveying the sense of movement. Signs which exhibit only time and temperature
are permitted if they otherwise comply with this chapter.
F.   No sign shall be illuminated in such a manner as may interfere with,
mislead or confuse traffic movement.
G.   Electrical equipment or wiring used to illuminate signs shall not be
visible on any building face. All electrical equipment including lights, lamps
and fixtures illuminating ground level signs shall be screened from view. All
receptacles or devices used to provide external illumination for wall and
freestanding signs shall not protrude more than nine inches (9") from the face
of the sign except for ground lighting.
H.   No signs shall utilize exposed neon tubing.
I.   No sign shall be internally illuminated in the Central Business District.
For purposes of this section, electronic business information displays are not
considered internally illuminated signs.
J.   To minimize the harmful effects of light pollution, lights which
illuminate signs shall:
1.   Be illuminated during the hours when intended for viewership;
2.   Light only the portion of the sign that contains text or graphic
depictions;
3.   Not be brighter than necessary for a viewer to reasonably identify the
content of the sign at night; and
4.   Be fully shielded (other than internal illumination that passes through
the text and/or graphics on a translucent sign face). (Ord. 2008-25, 11-10-
2008; amd. Ord. 2011-24, 12-12-2011; Ord. 2018-26, 11-12-2018)
10-10-9: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
All signs, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in conformance with this
chapter and in a secure and safe condition. Lettering shall be cleanly
maintained and legible. Faded, peeling, and broken lettering is prohibited.
(Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-10: REMOVAL OF SIGNS:
Within thirty (30) days after the vacation or abandonment of any building,
shop, store, space, development or portion thereof, or within thirty (30) days
after an event or activity for which a sign advertised, the owner or the
applicant shall remove, or cause to be removed, all such signs therefrom. (Ord.
96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-11: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
A.   Authority To Continue: Any nonconforming sign may be continued so long as
it otherwise remains lawful, subject to the regulations contained in this
section.
B.   Repair And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental repair or
replacement of nonbearing sign elements and electrical wiring and fixtures may
be performed on any nonconforming sign; provided, however, that any repair or
replacement shall, whenever possible, eliminate or reduce any nonconformity in
the element being repaired or replaced; and provided further, that this
subsection shall not be deemed to authorize any violation of subsections C, D,
E and F of this section.
C.   Alteration, Enlargement, Moving: No nonconforming sign shall be changed or
altered in any manner that would increase the degree of its nonconformity; be
enlarged or expanded; be structurally altered to prolong its useful life; be
moved, in whole or in part, to any other location where it would remain
nonconforming; or be altered so as to advertise or identify any use, activity,
event, or circumstance other than the use, activity, event, or circumstance
advertised and/or identified as of the date on which the sign became a
nonconforming sign pursuant to this chapter. A change in sign message that does
not otherwise violate the provisions of this subsection or this chapter shall
not be deemed to be prohibited by this subsection.
D.   Change Of Sign: A nonconforming sign that has been changed to eliminate
its nonconformity or any element of its nonconformity shall not thereafter be
changed to restore such nonconformity or nonconforming element.
E.   Damage Or Destruction: Any nonconforming sign damaged or destroyed, by any
means, to the extent of thirty five percent (35%) or more of its replacement
cost when new shall not be restored but shall be removed or brought into
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
F.   Compliance Or Removal: Any nonconforming sign that loses its status as a
nonconforming sign pursuant to this section shall be brought immediately into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or shall be immediately removed.
(Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-12: ILLEGAL SIGNS:
A.   Nuisance Declared And Prohibited: All signs that have been constructed or
erected or are being maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter
("illegal sign") are hereby declared to be a public nuisance. It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or possess an illegal sign located
on any property in the Village.
B.   Notice Requirements:
1.   Whenever an illegal sign is found to exist, the Village Building
Commissioner shall cause notice of such nuisance ("illegal sign notice") to be
served upon: a) the owner and the occupant of the property where the illegal
sign is located; and b) the holder of the relevant sign permit (collectively
the "notice recipients").
2.   In the illegal sign notice, the Building Commissioner shall order the
notice recipients to abate the nuisance within the applicable period of time
set forth below (the "response period"):
a.   For permanent illegal signs, within fourteen (14) days after mailing or
personal delivery of the illegal sign notice;
b.   For temporary illegal signs, within forty eight (48) hours after mailing
or personal delivery of the illegal sign notice; or
c.   For signs that are unsafe or insecure or otherwise constitute an immediate
danger to public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, within twenty four
(24) hours after mailing or personal delivery of the illegal sign notice.
3.   The illegal sign notice shall also:
a.   Notify the notice recipients that unless the sign nuisance is abated
within the response period, the Village may proceed to abate the nuisance,
assess all direct and indirect costs and expenses incurred in connection
therewith, including the cost of collection ("abatement costs"), jointly and
severally against the notice recipients, and pursuant to and to the fullest
extent provided by Illinois law, impose a lien for the abatement costs on the
property on which the illegal sign is located;
b.   Include a copy of this chapter and identify the illegal sign and the
property on which it is located; and
c.   Be personally served or sent by registered mail to each of the notice
recipients.
C.   Opportunity To Abate Nuisance; Failure To Abate: Within the response
period, the notice recipients shall cause the nuisance to be removed or
otherwise abated. If the notice recipients neglect or refuse to abate the
nuisance as required by the illegal sign notice, the Village Building
Commissioner shall promptly employ such Village resources as are necessary to
abate or remove the nuisance. If the Village Building Commissioner shall cause
the abatement of any nuisance, the abatement costs shall be assessed jointly
and severally against the notice recipients.
D.   Lien Authorized: In the event that the abatement costs incurred by the
Village to abate the public nuisance pursuant to this section are not paid in
full upon billing, the Village Clerk may, pursuant to and to the fullest extent
provided by Illinois law, file a lien for any unpaid abatement costs against
the property on which any such public nuisance is located. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-
1996)
10-10-13: SIGNS REQUIRING REVIEW BY VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
A.   Specific Signs: The following signs shall require issuance of a sign
permit from the Village Administrator:
1.   Temporary community group promotional signs, upon submittal of a completed
community group promotional signage application.
2.   All temporary signs other than those that are specifically listed as
exempt pursuant to subsection 10-10-19A of this chapter.
3.   All portable signs in the public right-of-way other than those prohibited
pursuant to section
10-10-4 of this chapter.
4.   Any sign requiring a permit in the Railroad District.
5.   A sign to be constructed or installed on a property located in the Light
Industry or Limited Light Industry Zoning Districts (L-1 and L-2) pursuant to
an consistent with a master sign plan approved in accordance with Section
10-10-14 F.3. of this code.
B.   Submittal: Upon submittal to the Village Building Commissioner of a
completed application for one of the signs identified in subsection A of this
section, the Building Commissioner shall refer the application and all other
relevant documents to the Village Administrator for consideration and decision.
The Village Administrator may require the applicant or other interested parties
to submit additional information regarding the proposed sign.
C.   Approval: The Village Administrator shall approve an application submitted
pursuant to this section and shall direct the Building Commissioner to issue a
sign permit if, based on the sign permit application and all other reliable and
relevant evidence, documents, and information, the Village Administrator
determines that the proposed sign complies and is consistent with the
provisions of this chapter.
D.   Conditions: The Village Administrator may approve a sign permit pursuant
to this section subject to such conditions as the Village Administrator shall
deem necessary to protect the public welfare and to achieve the purposes of
this chapter.
E.   Denial: If the sign permit application and consideration of all other
reliable and relevant evidence, documents, and information reveal that the
applicant has not satisfied the conditions of subsection C of this section,
then the Village Administrator shall promptly notify the applicant that the
sign permit application is denied and that no sign permit pursuant to this
section shall be issued.
F.   Revocation Or Suspension: Any sign permit issued pursuant to this section
may be revoked or suspended by the Village Administrator if the holder of the
sign permit violates the terms of the sign permit or any other provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2019-29, 12-9-2019)
10-10-14: SIGNS REQUIRING REVIEW BY ARCHITECTURAL BOARD OF REVIEW:
A.   Residence Districts: The following signs shall require a permit and review
by the Architectural Board of Review pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter prior to being erected, installed or maintained in the
residence zoning districts (C-E, E-1, E-2, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6) in
accordance with the following standards:
1.   Municipal, school, library and park district signs.
2.   Portable signs shall not be permitted.
3.   Subdivision signs.
4.   Subdivision "for sale" signs. Any sign advertising the sale of vacant
property and/or new residential construction in a subdivision consisting of
four (4) or more separate parcels, shall comply with the following specific
requirements:
a.   There shall be no more than one sign per subdivision. Such sign shall be
located within the private property limits of one of the lots in the
subdivision.
b.   No such sign shall exceed twenty four (24) square feet in total surface
area or eight feet (8') above grade.
c.   Such sign shall remain only until twenty five percent (25%) of the total
parcels in the subdivision or three (3) parcels, whichever is greater, remain
to be sold.
B.   Central Business District: The following signs shall require a permit and
review by the Architectural Board of Review pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter prior to being erected, installed or maintained in the
Central Business Zoning District (CBD). All businesses shall be limited to one
awning sign, or one wall sign, or one ground sign, or one projecting sign. In
addition, any sign within said district shall comply with the following
standards:
1.   Awning Signs: All such signs shall comply with the following:
a.   Such signs shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest portion of
the projecting frame shall not be less than seven feet six inches (7'6") above
the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare, and the lowest portion of a
descending skirt shall not be less than six feet eight inches (6'8") above the
level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare.
b.   Awnings signs shall be permitted only on multi-tenant buildings if the
Architectural Board of Review has approved an awning sign color scheme for the
entire building.
2.   Door Signs: Signs on doors shall be limited to the business name and hours
of operation. The area of total signage on a door shall not exceed fifteen
percent (15%) of the area of the glass when mounted on glass, or fifteen
percent (15%) of the area of the door when mounted on an opaque surface. Said
sign shall be placed so as not to interfere with the safe ingress and egress
through said door.
3.   Flags And Flagpoles: One flagpole and two (2) flags shall be permitted per
zoning lot. Flagpoles shall not be permitted in the public right-of-way.
Flagpoles shall be no greater than thirty feet (30') in height and shall be set
back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property lines.
4.   Ground Signs: Such signs shall comply with the following specific
requirements:
a.   No more than one ground sign per lot shall be allowed, including on lots
containing multi-tenant buildings.
b.   Said signs shall not exceed a total surface area of fifteen (15) square
feet.
c.   Said signs shall not exceed three feet (3') in height.
d.   Said signs shall not exceed eight feet (8') in length including any
foundation and supporting structures.
e.   No extra ground signs shall be permitted for businesses on corner or
through lots.
5.   Municipal, Park Signs: Municipal, school, library and park district signs.
6.   On Site Informational Sign: Such signs shall comply with the following
specific requirements:
a.   No more than two (2) on site informational signs per lot shall be allowed.
b.   Said signs shall not exceed a total surface area of three (3) square feet
each.
7.   Portable Signs: Portable signs shall not be permitted.
8.   Projecting Signs: Such signs shall be limited to one per business in
accordance with the following specific requirements:
a.   Said sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in total surface area, not
including the frame or support mechanism, and said sign shall project from a
wall or facade no more than four feet (4') including the frame or support
mechanism.
b.   Said sign shall be no less than seven feet six inches (7'6") above grade
at its lowest point and shall not exceed a height of twelve feet (12') at its
highest point, but in no event shall said sign exceed the roofline.
9.   Wall Or Fascia Signs: Such signs shall comply with the following specific
requirements:
a.   No more than one wall or fascia sign shall be permitted per business on
the front facade.
b.   Said sign shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet of total surface area
or five percent (5%) of the total surface area of the building facade,
whichever is less.
c.   Said sign shall be no more than six inches (6") in depth and shall be
placed flush to the face of the building on which it is attached. Said sign
shall not be permitted to extend above the fascia line or coping line of the
wall to which said sign is attached for one story, or located above the first
floor elevation of the building.
d.   An additional sign on a corner building with frontage on two (2) public
streets shall be permitted; provided, that said additional sign shall be
deducted from the total maximum sign area allowed for the front facade.
10.   Window Signs: The aggregate coverage of such signs shall not exceed
fifteen percent (15%) per window.
C.   Automotive Park District:
1.   The following signs shall require a permit and review by the Architectural
Board of Review pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter prior to being erected, installed or maintained in the
Automotive Park Zoning District (AP-1):
a.   All businesses designated as new or used vehicle dealership franchises
shall be limited to one awning sign or one projecting sign, and two (2) wall
signs, and one ground sign. The permitted awning or projecting sign may be
substituted for an additional wall sign.
b.   All businesses not designated as new or used vehicle dealership franchises
shall be limited to one awning sign or one projecting sign, or one wall sign,
and one ground sign and one window sign.
c.   The size, location, and coloring of all signs requiring a permit shall be
reviewed and approved by the Architectural Board of Review.
2.   In addition, any sign within said district shall comply with the following
standards:
a.   Awning Signs: All awning signs shall comply with the following:
(1)   Letters shall be placed on the descending skirt only.
(2)   Such signs shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest portion of
the projecting frame shall not be less than seven feet six inches (7'6") above
the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare, and the lowest portion of the
descending skirt shall not be less than six feet eight inches (6'8") above the
level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare.
b.   Banners And Display Signs: Banners, pennants, paper window signs, string
lights, searchlights, flashing lights and signs, signs on vehicles (other than
vehicle price stickers and model year stickers that each do not exceed 16
inches by 24 inches) and similar signs shall be prohibited at all times and at
all locations in the Automotive Park District, except as specifically allowed
on a temporary basis by the Village Administrator as provided by section
10-10-13 of this chapter.
c.   Door Signs: No more than one door sign identifying the owner, occupant or
business on the premises shall be allowed. Said sign shall be placed so as not
to interfere with the safe ingress and egress through said door. The lettering
of all door signs shall not exceed five inches (5") in height and shall be
placed in the upper half of the door.
d.   Flags And Flagpoles: Flags and flagpoles signs shall comply with the
following specific requirements:
(1)   No more than three (3) flagpoles and four (4) flags shall be permitted
per new or used vehicle dealership franchise.
(2)   No more than one flagpole and two (2) flags shall be permitted per
business not designated as a new or used vehicle dealership franchise.
(3)   Flagpoles shall not be permitted in the public right-of-way.
(4)   Flagpoles shall be no greater than thirty four feet (34') in height and
shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property lines.
(5)   No individual flag shall exceed fifty (50) square feet in total area.
e.   Ground Signs: Ground signs shall comply with the following specific
requirements:
(1)   No more than one ground sign per business shall be permitted.
(2)   One "electronic reader board" ground sign shall be permitted per zoning
lot.
(3)   One monument sign, to be used solely to describe the tenants of the
district, shall be permitted per zoning lot. An additional monument sign may be
substituted for the "electronic reader board" sign permitted in subsection C2e
(2) of this section.
f.   Municipal, Park Signs: Municipal, school, library and park district signs.
g.   On Site Directory Sign: On site directory signs shall comply with the
following specific requirements:
(1)   Said signs shall not exceed a total surface area of six (6) square feet.
(2)   Said signs shall not exceed four feet (4') in height.
h.   On Site Informational Sign; New Or Used Vehicle Dealership Franchises: On
site informational signs for new or used vehicle dealership franchises shall
comply with the following specific requirements for new or used vehicle
dealership franchises:
(1)   No more than four (4) on site informational signs shall be allowed.
(2)   Said signs shall not exceed a total surface area of six (6) square feet
each.
i.   On Site Informational Sign For All Businesses Not Designated As New Or
Used Vehicle Dealership Franchises: On site information signs for all
businesses not designated as new or used vehicle dealership franchises shall
comply with the specific requirements as set forth in subsection B6 of this
section.
j.   Outdoor Display Pads: Outdoor display pads are regulated by subsection 10-
6C-12C of this title.
k.   Projecting Signs: Projection signs shall be no less than seven feet six
inches (7'6") above grade at it lowest point and shall not exceed a height of
fifteen feet (15') at its highest point. In no event shall said sign exceed the
roofline.
l.   Wall Or Fascia Signs: Wall or fascia signs shall not be permitted to
extend above the fascia line or coping line of the wall to which said sign is
attached.
m.   Window Signs: The aggregate coverage of window signs shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) per window. No sign shall be placed or maintained on the
exterior of any window facing upon any street, except for warning and entrance
and exit signs.
D.   Office And Research And Service Zoning Districts: The following signs
shall require a permit and review by the Architectural Board of Review pursuant
to section
10-10-15 of this chapter prior to being erected, installed, or maintained on
properties located in the Office and Research and Service Zoning Districts (O&R
and S). Each lot shall be limited to one awning sign, or one ground sign, or
one wall sign, in accordance with the following standards:
1.   Awning Signs: Such signs shall be regulated exactly as those in the
Central Business District, pursuant to the provisions provided in subsection B1
of this section.
2.   Door Signs: No more than one door sign identifying the owner, occupant or
business on the premises shall be allowed. Said sign shall be placed so as not
to interfere with the safe ingress and egress through said door. The lettering
of all door signs shall not exceed five inches (5") in height and shall be
placed in the upper half of the door.
3.   Flags And Flagpoles: No more than three (3) flagpoles and four (4) flags
shall be permitted per zoning lot. Flagpoles shall not be permitted in the
public right-of-way. Flagpoles shall be no greater than thirty feet (30') in
height and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property
lines.
4.   Ground Signs: Such signs shall comply with the following specific
requirements:
a.   No more than one ground sign per lot (multi-tenant buildings shall utilize
one sign for all tenants) shall be permitted.
b.   Said sign shall not exceed a total area of sixty four (64) square feet per
sign face and a total area of one hundred twenty eight (128) square feet for
all sign faces combined, calculated by taking the width of the sign multiplied
by the height measured from the existing grade to the top of the sign,
including any space under the sign.
c.   Said sign shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
d.   A building on a corner or through lot with frontage on two (2) public
streets will be permitted a second sign of the same area as specified above.
5.   Municipal, Park Signs: Municipal, school, library and park district signs.
6.   On Site Informational Signs: Such signs shall comply with the following
specific requirements:
a.   No more than three (3) on site informational signs per lot shall be
allowed.
b.   Said signs shall not exceed a total surface area of six (6) square feet
each.
7.   Portable Signs: Portable signs shall not be permitted.
8.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs shall not be permitted.
9.   Wall Or Fascia Signs: Such signs shall comply with the following specific
requirements:
a.   No more than one wall or fascia sign shall be permitted per lot on the
front facade.
b.   Said sign shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in total surface area
and shall have a height no greater than twenty feet (20') above grade.
c.   Said sign shall be no more than twelve inches (12") in depth and shall be
placed flush to the face of the building on which it is attached. Said signs
shall not be permitted to extend above the fascia line or coping line of the
wall to which said sign is attached.
d.   A building on a corner lot with frontage on two (2) public streets will be
permitted a second sign of the same area as specified above.
10.   Window Signs: Window signs shall not be permitted.
E.   RIO District: The following signs shall require a permit and review by the
Architectural Board of Review pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter prior to being erected, installed or maintained in the
Recreational, Institutional, and Open Space District (RIO) in accordance with
the following standards:
1.   Municipal, school, library, park district, and church and houses of
worship signs.
2.   Portable signs shall not be permitted.
F.   Light Industry And Limited Light Industry Districts:
1.   Definitions: Wherever the following words or phrases are used, they shall,
for the purposes of this subsection
10-10-14.F, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Subsection
10-10-14.F.1, except when the context otherwise indicates:
MULTI-TENANT NON-RETAIL DEVELOPMENTS - INDIVIDUAL ENTRIES: Means a development
of two (2) or more office and limited service uses, which uses are designed to
have their own entryways.
MULTI-TENANT NON-RETAIL DEVELOPMENTS - SHARED ENTRY: Means a development of two
(2) or more office or limited service uses, in which tenant uses are designed
to be internal to the building and accessed by one or more shared entryways.
MULTI-TENANT RETAIL AND SERVICE CENTER: Means a development designed for two
(2) or more commercial, retail, service, or restaurant establishments, that is
planned, owned, and/or managed as a unified development, such as shopping
centers and strip retail centers.
SINGLE TENANT DEVELOPMENT: Means a development designed for one user or tenant.
2.   Signs Installed On Properties Without An Approved Master Sign Plan: Except
for signs erected, installed, and maintained in accordance with a master sign
plan approved pursuant to Section 10-10-19.14.F.3 of this Code, the following
signs shall require a permit and review by the Architectural Board of Review
pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter prior to being erected, installed, or maintained on
properties located in the Light Industry and Limited Light Industry Zoning
Districts (L-1 and L-2), and must comply with the following standards:
a.   Awning Signs:
(1)   Only one awning sign is permitted on a building.
(2)   An awning sign is permitted for buildings with less than one hundred
(100) linear feet of building frontage provided that such building does not
have a wall or fascia sign. Buildings with one hundred (100) linear feet of
building frontage or more are permitted both a wall or fascia sign and an
awning sign;
(3)   An awning sign may be installed only above an entryway of a building.
(4)   An awning signs must be mounted in line with all other awnings on the
building's façade and be of the same single base color;
(5)   Sign copy on any awning sign surface shall be limited to twenty five
percent (25%) of each surface. A valance shall be considered a separate
surface. Copy includes, without limitation, words, images, logos, and graphics;
and
(6)   Awning signs must be constructed and erected so that:
(a)   The lowest portion of the projecting frame is not less than seven feet,
six inches (7' 6") above the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare, and
(b)   The lowest portion of a descending skirt is not less than six feet, eight
inches (6' 8") above the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare.
b.    Flags And Flagpoles:
(1)   No more than three (3) flagpoles and four (4) flags are permitted on a
zoning lot; and
(2)   Flagpoles shall be a maximum of thirty feet (30') in height and must be
set back from all property lines a minimum of ten feet (10').
c.   Ground Signs:
(1)   Only one ground sign is permitted on a zoning lot; provided however, a
corner or through lot with frontage on two (2) public streets is permitted a
second ground sign on the second street frontage;
(2)   A ground sign may not exceed a total sign area of sixty four (64) square
feet per sign face, with a total area of one hundred twenty eight (128) square
feet for all sign faces combined, calculated by taking the width of the sign
multiplied by the height of the sign measured from the existing grade to the
top of the sign, including any space under the sign; and
(3)   No ground sign shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height, measured from
the existing grade to the top of the sign, including any space under the sign.
d.   Menuboard Signs:
(1)   Menuboard signs are permitted only for drive-through facilities;
(2)   Only one menuboard sign shall be permitted per drive-through lane;
provided, however, temporary signs may be affixed to a menuboard sign so long
as the total sign area of any temporary signs does not exceed ten (10) square
feet;
(3)   If only one menuboard sign is located on a property, the menuboard sign
shall be larger than fifty (50) square feet in sign area. If more than one
menuboard sign is located on a property, each menuboard sign shall be no larger
than thirty two (32) square feet in sign area;
(4)   A menuboard sign may not exceed seven feet (7') in height, measured from
the existing grade to the top of the sign, including any space under the sign;
and
(5)   Menuboard signs may be internally illuminated and contain an electronic
or video display screen and audio component for interaction with the customer.
No menuboard sign may be externally illuminated.
e.   On-Site Informational Signs:
(1)   No more than three (3) on-site informational signs are allowed on a
zoning lot; and
(2)   No on-site informational sign shall exceed a total sign area of six (6)
square feet.
f.   Wall Or Fascia Signs:
(1)   Either a wall or fascia sign is permitted for buildings with less than
one hundred (100) linear feet of building frontage provided that the building
does not have an awning sign. Buildings with one hundred (100) linear feet of
building frontage or more are permitted both a wall or fascia sign and an
awning sign;
(2)   No more than one wall or fascia sign is permitted on the front façade
facing the public street; provided, however, that a building on a corner lot
with frontage on two (2) public streets is permitted a secondary wall or fascia
sign on the second façade facing a public street. For a structure that contains
multiple tenants, a wall sign is permitted for each tenant that has exterior
business façade area with an entryway along the linear building frontage;
(3)   The maximum sign area for primary and secondary wall or fascia signs
shall be as follows:
Development Type Maximum Sign Area
Development Type                        Maximum Sign Area
                                        Primary Sign: 1 square foot of sign
Single tenant developments              area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
                                        Secondary Sign: 1 square foot of sign
                                        area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
                                        Primary Sign: 1.75 square foot of sign
Multi-tenant retail and service centers area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
                                        Secondary Sign: 1.5 square foot of sign
                                        area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
Multi-tenant non-retail developments -  Primary Sign: 1 square foot of sign
shared entry                            area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
                                        Secondary Sign: 1 square foot of sign
                                        area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
Multi-tenant non-retail developments -  Primary Sign: 1 square foot of sign
individual entries                      area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
                                        Secondary Sign: 1 square foot of sign
                                        area for each linear foot of building
                                        frontage
 
(4)   Wall or fascia signs shall be located no more than twenty feet (20')
above grade; and
(5)   Wall or fascia signs shall not project more than twelve inches (12") from
the face of the building on which it is installed, and not extend above the
fascia line or coping line of the wall to which such sign is attached.
g.   Window Signs:
(1)   Window signs shall be permitted on the ground floor only; and
(2)   The total window sign area, whether temporary or permanent, shall be
limited to no more than fifteen percent (15%) of the total surface area of
windows within the applicant's tenant space.
3.   Master Sign Plan:
a.    Purpose: The intent of the regulation of master sign plans is to ensure
that properties with multiple buildings, and buildings with multiple occupants
or tenants, provide signage that is well designed and consistent throughout
that building or property, while providing some flexibility in the design of
the signs that are approved through a master sign package.
b.   Requirement To Obtain Approval Of A Master Sign Plan: Except for
properties developed prior to ___________, an owner must submit an application
for, and obtain approval of, a master sign plan for (a) multi-tenant non-retail
and service centers and (b) multi-tenant non-retail developments - individual
entries. An owner may, but is no required to, submit an application for, and
obtain approval of, a master sign plan for (x) a single tenant development, (y)
a multi-tenant tenant non-retail development-shared entry, and (z) multi-tenant
non-retail and service centers and multi-tenant non-retail developments -
individual entries constructed prior to ___________.
c.   Planned Commercial Developments:
(1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in section
10-10-14.F.3.b, an owner must submit an application for, and obtain approval
of, a master sign plan as part of the approval of a planned commercial
development. Following approval of the planned commercial development, the
construction, installation, and maintenance of signs in a planned commercial
development must comply with the approved master sign plan. All sign standards
approved as part of a planned commercial development prior to ______________
are deemed to be, and shall be considered, an approved master sign plan for
that planned commercial development.
(2)   If an applicant applies for approval of a master sign plan in conjunction
with the approval of or an amendment to a planned commercial development, the
Architectural Board of Review shall not have final authority to approve the
master sign plan; rather, the Architectural Board of Review shall have the
authority to issue a recommendation to the Village Board, and the Village Board
shall have the authority to grant or deny the application for a master sign
plan as part of its consideration for approval of the planned commercial
development or an amendment thereto. In determining whether to issue a
recommendation to the Village Board to grant or deny an application for a
master sign plan, or when considering whether to approve an application for a
master sign plan, in accordance with this subsection, the Architectural Board
of Review and Village Board shall consider the standards set forth in section
10-10-14.F.3.e of this Code.
d.   Master Sign Plan Requirements: No master sign plan shall be approved
unless it contains the following details and specifications to establish a
coordinated design and consistent pattern for all signs to be constructed,
installed, and maintained on a zoning lot:
(1)   The number and description of all signs permitted within the development;
(2)   Location of all signs, and for wall signs, the dimensions of any sign
band;
(3)   Maximum dimension of all signs and minimum dimension, if applicable;
(4)   Information about the permitted sign support structure types, design, and
colors;
(5)   The types of sign illumination permitted;
(6)   Sign construction materials;
(7)   Any design or format of message requirements or restrictions for tenants,
such as color, font restrictions, and/or construction type (channel letters,
raceway mounted, etc.);
(8)   If awning signs are included, the required color scheme for awnings,
lettering, and graphics;
(9)   The location of ground signs and freestanding signs, such as on-site
informational signs, relative to all circulation points, such as driveways and
drive aisle intersections within a parking lot. The plan must show that the
location and dimensions of the signs at any circulation point intersection will
not create dangerous obstructions of view; and
(10)   Any additional information required by the Architectural Board of Review
or Village Board.
e.   Process And Standards:
(1)   An application for a master sign plan shall be submitted to the
Architectural Board of Review for its review and approval in accordance with
this section. No master sign plan shall be approved by the Architectural Board
of Review unless the Architectural Board of Review shall find that the master
sign plan incorporates signage that is:
(a)   In compliance with all of the requirements set forth in section
10-10-14.F.2 of this code except as set forth in section
10-10-19 of this Code;
(b)   Unified and consistent throughout the building or property;
(c)   Of a higher quality than would be otherwise required under the applicable
sign regulations; and
(d)   Compatible with the design and materials of the building or buildings,
and consistent with the area surrounding the building or property.
(2)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section
10-10-14, if an applicant for a master sign plan also applies for an exemption
to the requirements set forth in Section
10-10-14.F.2 of this Code, the Architectural Board of Review shall not have
final authority to approve the master sign plan or the exemption; rather, the
Architectural Board of Review shall have the authority to issue a
recommendation to the Village Board, and the Village Board shall have the
authority to grant or deny the master sign plan and exemption in accordance
with Section
10-10-19.C of this Code. In determining whether to issue a recommendation to
the Village Board to grant or deny a master sign plan and any exemptions to
Section
10-10-14.F.2, the Architectural Board of Review shall consider the standards
set forth in Sections
10-10-14.F.3.e and
10-10-19.C of this Code.
f.   Appeal: If the Architectural Board of Review denies an application for a
master sign plan, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Village Board.
g.   Amendments To Master Sign Plans: A master sign plan may be amended after
in the same manner and subject to the same procedures and limitations as
required for approval of an initial master sign plan under the terms of this
Section
10-10-14.F. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. Ord. 2000-20, 12-11-2000; 2009 Code;
Ord. 2018-26, 11-12-2018; Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019; Ord. 2019-29, 12-9-2019)
10-10-15: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION:
A.   Submittal: Upon submittal to the Village Building Commissioner of a
completed sign permit application required pursuant to section
10-10-14 of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall refer the application
and all other relevant documents to the Architectural Board of Review for its
consideration and decision.
B.   Hearing:
1.   The Architectural Board of Review shall consider the application at a
public meeting commenced within thirty (30) days after the completed
application is submitted to the Village Building Commissioner.
2.   The Building Commissioner shall provide the applicant seven (7) days'
advanced notice of the date of the hearing, unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant.
3.   At the meeting, the applicant and all interested parties shall have an
opportunity to be heard and to present testimony and documentary evidence
relating to the proposed sign.
C.   Approval: The Architectural Board of Review shall approve a sign
application and direct the Building Commissioner to issue a sign permit if,
based on the sign application, the testimony and other information presented at
the hearing, and all other reliable and relevant evidence, documents, and
information, the Architectural Board of Review determines that the proposed
sign, including illumination plans if applicable, complies and is consistent
with the provisions of this chapter.
D.   Conditions: The Architectural Board of Review may approve a sign permit
subject to such conditions as the Architectural Board of Review shall deem
necessary to protect the public welfare and to achieve the purposes of this
chapter.
E.   Denial: If the sign permit application and consideration of the testimony
and other evidence presented at the hearing, as well as all other reliable and
relevant evidence, documents, and information, reveal that the applicant has
not satisfied the conditions of subsection C of this section, then the
Architectural Board of Review shall promptly notify the applicant that the sign
permit application is denied and that no sign permit shall be issued. (Ord. 96-
27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-16: APPEALS:
A.   Appeal From Decision Of Architectural Board Of Review: Appeals from any
decision of the Architectural Board of Review: 1) issuing a sign permit
pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter; or 2) denying a permanent sign permit application
pursuant to section
10-10-15 of this chapter, may be taken by the applicant or any other person
adversely affected by any such decision. All such appeals shall be taken
pursuant to the procedures provided in subsection D of this section.
B.   Appeal From Decision Of Village Building Commissioner: Appeals from any
decision of the Village Building Commissioner: 1) issuing or revoking an
electrical sign permit pursuant to section
10-10-7 of this chapter; or 2) revoking an electrical sign permit application
pursuant to section
10-10-7 of this chapter, may be taken by the holder of the permit or any other
person adversely affected by any such decision. All such appeals shall be taken
pursuant to the procedures provided in subsection D of this section.
C.   Appeal From Decision Of Village Administrator: Appeals from any decision
of the Village Administrator: 1) issuing or revoking a sign permit pursuant to
subsection 10-10-13F of this chapter; or 2) denying a sign permit application
pursuant to subsection 10-10-13E of this chapter, may be taken by the applicant
or any other person adversely affected by any such decision. All such appeals
shall be taken pursuant to the procedures provided in subsection D of this
section.
D.   Appeal To Board Of Trustees: All appeals provided pursuant to subsections
A, B, and C of this section shall be taken to the Village Board of Trustees by
filing a written notice of appeal with the Village Administrator within five
(5) days following receipt or notice of the decision from which the appeal is
taken. The Village Board of Trustees shall review the relevant sign permit
application and any other reliable and relevant evidence, documents, or
information, and may receive and consider new evidence. Within thirty (30) days
after receipt of the written notice of appeal of the decision from which the
appeal is taken, the Village Board shall render its written decision at a
regularly scheduled meeting. The action taken by the Village Board of Trustees
shall be final. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996)
10-10-17: PERMIT FEES:
A fee set out in section
1-12-3 of this Code shall be charged by the Village for each permanent sign
requiring a permit. The fee shall be paid at the time of submittal of the
application for permanent sign permit. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-12-2004)
10-10-18: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Application for any sign permit shall be obtained from and shall be filed with
the Village Building Commissioner and shall contain or have attached thereto
the following information:
A.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
B.   A scaled drawing showing the lot and building(s) and structure(s) to which
the sign(s) is/are to be attached or erected. The exact position of the sign(s)
shall be noted on the drawing.
C.   A scaled drawing or plan of the sign(s) showing construction details for
the sign(s) including all dimensions, letter sizes and styles, and foundation
and/or mounting requirements and height of sign above grade, as applicable.
D.   A concise description of the construction materials and colors of all sign
components.
E.   If required by the Village Building Commissioner, a listing of the
necessary calculations showing that the structure is designated for dead load
and constructed to withstand wind pressure of not less than thirty five (35)
pounds per square foot, certified by a licensed structural engineer.
F.   Applications for temporary signs shall also include the date when the sign
is to be erected and the date when the sign is to be removed. (Ord. 96-27, 9-
24-1996)
10-10-19: EXEMPTIONS:
A.   Specific Signs Exempt: The following signs shall not require a sign permit
or review by the Architectural Board of Review, so long as such signs comply
with the following provisions applicable thereto, as well as all other
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, provisions regarding
the allowable total number and size of signs on a premises:
1.   Address Signs:
a.   Address signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet in total surface area
per officially assigned address or the size required by the law, order, rule or
regulation, whichever is greater.
b.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section
10-10-19.A.1.a of this Code, in the Light Industry District (L-1) and Limited
Light Industry District (L-2) if:
(1)   The address sign is wall-mounted;
(2)   The address sign is not included as part of a sign that also qualifies
another sign type;
(3)   If a master sign plan is approved for the property and the address sign
complies with the provisions and requirements of the master sign plan;
(4)   The address sign does not exceed the following maximum surface area:
 
Total Linear Building Frontage of Tenant Maximum Surface Area
Less than 100 linear feet                4 square feet
100 or more linear feet                  8 square feet
 
(5)   For a multi-tenant building that has multiple tenant spaces:
               (a)   The building is permitted one address sign, and the
maximum surface area of such sign shall be consistent with Section
10-10-19.1.a.4 of this code; and
               (b)   Each tenant space is permitted one address sign, which
address signs shall be placed above or adjacent to the respective entranceway
of a tenant space, and the maximum surface area of such signs shall be
consistent with Section
10-10-19.1.a.4 of this code based on the linear square feet of the frontage of
the applicable tenant space.
2.   Bulletin board sign. Such signs shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet
(including support members) in total surface area and shall not exceed a
maximum of seven feet (7') above grade. With respect to public, charitable or
religious institutions where the bulletin board sign is located on the premises
of the institution, a maximum of one bulletin board sign per institution shall
be permitted.
3.   Business nameplates. One nameplate per proprietor of a lawful business may
be erected; provided, that such nameplate shall not exceed one square foot in
total surface area.
4.   Central business district signs. The following signs shall be allowed on
properties located in the central business zoning district (CBD) in accordance
with the following standards:
a.   Auxiliary signs. Such signs shall be placed only on a door or window and
shall total no more than two (2) square feet.
b.   Project identification signs. Such signs shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet in total surface area, shall not exceed six feet (6') above grade,
and shall only be allowed within the property limits where a commercial
building is undergoing construction or alteration.
c.   Real estate signs.
(1)   On site real estate signs. One sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet
in total surface area and four feet (4') above grade shall be permitted on the
private property that is the subject of the sign and not in the public right of
way.
(2)   Off site real estate signs. Such signs shall advertise only development
in the central business district, shall be not exceed twelve (12) square feet
in total surface area, and shall not exceed six feet (6') above grade.
5.   Certain industrial and automotive park district signs. The following signs
shall be allowed on properties located in the automotive park, light industry,
limited light industry, office and research or service zoning district (AP-1,
L-1, L-2, O&R, S) in accordance with the following standards:
a.   Auxiliary signs. Such signs shall be placed only on a door or window and
shall total no more than two (2) square feet.
b.   Project identification signs.
(1)   Ground sign. One ground sign not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in
total surface area, the top of which shall not exceed six feet (6') above
grade, shall be allowed within the property limits where a commercial building
is undergoing construction or alteration.
(2)   Trailer/truck signs. One painted or otherwise permanent sign shall be
allowed on construction trailers or trucks. No additional signs, banners, or
placards may be hung or otherwise attached onto a construction trailer or
truck. All trailers and trucks shall be removed immediately following the
issuance of the occupancy permit and/or completion of the construction.
c.   Real estate signs.
(1)   On site real estate signs. One sign, not exceeding thirty two (32) square
feet in total surface area, ten feet (10') in length and ten feet (10') in
height above grade, shall be permitted on the private property that is the
subject of the sign and not in the public right of way for a period not to
exceed six (6) months. Unless otherwise approved by the village administrator,
no such sign may be allowed for a period of one year after the expiration of
any such six (6) month period, or within a period of one year after the removal
of such a sign.
(2)   Real estate signs on corner lots. Two (2) signs, not to exceed thirty two
(32) square feet in total surface area, ten feet (10') in length and ten feet
(10') in height above grade each, shall be permitted on the private property,
but not on the public right of way, for a period not to exceed six (6) months.
(3)   Off site real estate signs. Such signs shall advertise only development
in the automotive park district, light industry district, limited light
industry district, office and research district and service district and shall
not exceed twelve (12) square feet in total surface area and six feet (6')
above grade.
6.   Certain residential district signs. The following signs shall be allowed
on properties located in the residence zoning districts (C-E, E-1, E-2, R-1, R-
2, R-3, R-4, R-5, R-6) in accordance with the following standards:
a.   Flags and flagpoles. One flagpole and two (2) flags shall be permitted per
zoning lot and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property
lines. Flagpoles shall not be permitted in the public right of way.
b.   Private sale signs.
(1)   On site private sale signs. One sign, not to exceed three (3) square feet
in total surface area, may be located on the private property where the sale is
to take place. On a corner lot, two (2) signs, not to exceed three (3) square
feet in total surface area each, may be located on the private property where
the sale is to take place, provided no more than one sign shall face each
public street. The top of any such sign shall not exceed four feet (4') above
grade.
(2)   Off site private sale signs. Two (2) off site directional signs may be
utilized in conjunction with a private sale. Any such off site sign may be
placed in the public parkway only at local intersections, and such signs shall
not exceed the dimensions set forth in subsection A6b(1) of this section, and
shall specifically comply with the following specific requirements:
(A)   Said signs shall be staked in or placed on the ground and shall not be
attached to any street pole, tree, rock, fire hydrant, light pole or similar
structure.
(B)   Said signs shall contain only the wording necessary to describe the
private sale (i.e., "garage sale", "house sale"), the hours of the sale, the
address where the sale is to be conducted, and an arrow.
(C)   Said signs shall be displayed only on the day preceding the sale and
during the hours of the sale, and shall be removed at the end of each day of
the sale.
(D)   Said signs shall not create or present a traffic or pedestrian sight line
obstruction.
(E)   Said signs shall not be permitted or displayed for more than two (2) such
private sales in any one calendar year nor for more than four (4) consecutive
days for each private sale.
(F)   Said signs shall not be placed in the middle grass island of East Center
Avenue, at the intersection of Illinois Route 176 and Green Bay Road, nor at
the intersection of McKinley and East Sheridan Roads.
c.   Open house signs.
(1)   On site open house sign. One open house sign, not to exceed three (3)
square feet in total surface area, may be located on the private property where
the open house is to take place. The top of the sign shall not exceed four feet
(4') above grade.
(2)   Off site open house signs. Two (2) open house signs may be placed in the
public right of way no more frequently than two (2) days a week and for a
period of time not to exceed six (6) hours per day. Such signs shall not exceed
the dimensions set forth in subsection A6c(1) of this section and shall comply
with the specific requirements set forth for off site private sale signs in
subsection A6b(2) of this section.
d.   Project identification signs. One project identification sign not
exceeding four (4) square feet in total surface area, the top of which shall be
no higher than four feet (4') above grade, shall be allowed within the property
limits of a residential building undergoing construction or alteration.
e.   Real estate signs.
(1)   On site real estate signs. One sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet
in total surface area and four feet (4') above grade shall be permitted on the
private property that is the subject of the sign and not in the public right of
way.
(2)   Real estate signs on corner lots. Two (2) signs, not exceeding four (4)
square feet in total surface area each, and four feet (4') above grade on the
private property that is the subject of the sign and not in the public right of
way.
7.   Certain signs in the RIO District. The following signs shall be allowed on
properties located in the Recreational, Institutional, and Open Space District
(RIO) in accordance with the following standards:
a.   Flags and flagpoles. One flagpole and two (2) flags shall be permitted per
zoning lot and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property
lines. Flagpoles shall not be permitted in the public right-of-way.
b.   Auxiliary signs. Such signs shall be placed only on a door or window and
shall total no more than two (2) square feet.
c.   Project identification signs. One ground sign not exceeding twelve (12)
square feet in total surface area, the top of which shall not exceed six feet
(6') above grade, shall be allowed within the property limits where a building
is undergoing construction or alteration.
8.   Political signs.
a.   Size Per Sign: Political signs may be up to six (6) square feet in total
area but no more than four feet (4') in height.
b.   Permitted On Private Property: Political signs are permitted within the
lot lines on private property at all times with the lot owner's consent.
Political signs are not permitted on public rights-of-way at any time.
c.   Location On A Lot: Political signs may be located on a lot between the
building and the setback line, except that during an election period political
campaign signs may be located between the setback line and the lot line.
d.   Square Area Of All Signs: The total area of political signs on a lot shall
not exceed eighteen (18) square feet during periods of time other than election
periods. During election periods, no more than one political campaign sign may
be displayed for each candidate or issue and the square footage of political
campaign signs shall not count against the eighteen (18) square foot maximum.
9.   Governmental signs.
10.   Historic marker signs. Shall not exceed two (2) square feet in total
surface area.
11.   Holiday decorations.
12.   Incidental signs. Shall not exceed two (2) square feet in total surface
area.
13.   Other signs.
a.   One sign for each church, school, or public or quasi-public organization
shall be permitted on the lot where said organization is located. Said sign
shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in total surface area and, if a
freestanding sign, shall not exceed a height of five feet (5') above grade. All
such signs shall be located within the property limits and not on public
rights-of-way. On a corner or through lot, two (2) such signs shall be
permitted.
b.   Warning signs, such as "no trespassing", "beware of dog", "no soliciting",
provided they do not exceed one square foot in total surface area.
14.   Temporary signs.
a.   Interior nonilluminated advertising signs. Such signs shall be allowed
only for the announcement of an event, sale or sale item, provided they do not
exceed five percent (5%) of total window area per window and shall not be
displayed longer than thirty (30) days.
b.   Announcement signs. Such signs, including balloons and banners, that are
erected on residential lots to announce a birth, birthday, anniversary, or
other similar event are allowed, provided they shall be displayed no longer
than twenty four (24) hours prior to the special occasion and removed within
seven (7) days after the sign is first displayed. Temporary announcement signs
in nonresidential districts shall comply with section
10-10-13 of this chapter.
B.   Hardship Exemptions: The Village Board of Trustees, following a
recommendation from the Architectural Board of Review, may grant or deny an
exemption to any of the conditions for issuance of a sign permit set forth in
any section of this chapter if the Village Board of Trustees determines that
such an exemption is appropriate due to a particular hardship or special unique
circumstance and if such exemption will not defeat the fundamental purposes and
intent of this chapter as expressed in section
10-10-1 of this chapter, nor be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious
to the property in the vicinity of the property for which an exemption is
granted. At least ten (10) days prior to consideration of the proposed
exemption, pursuant to this subsection, before the Village Board, the Village
Administrator shall notify in writing the owners of all property contiguous to
or directly across public right-of-way from the lot on which the subject sign
is proposed to be placed. The notice shall state the address of the lot on
which the subject sign is proposed to be placed and the nature of the
exemption.
C.   Exemptions For Master Sign Plans: If an applicant for a master sign plan
also applies for an exemption to the requirements set forth in Section
10-10-14.F.2 of this code, the Village Board of Trustees, following a
recommendation from the Architectural Board of Review, may grant or deny an
exemption to any of the requirements for approval of a master sign plan if such
an exemption:
1.   Is appropriate due to a particular hardship, special unique circumstance,
or will further the fundamental purposes and intent of Section
10-10-14.F.3.a; and
2.   Such exemption will not be unreasonably detrimental to the public welfare
or injurious to the property in the vicinity of the property for which an
exemption is granted. (Ord. 96-27, 9-24-1996; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2011-17, 9-
26-2011; Ord. 2011-27, 12-19-2011; Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019; Ord. 2019-29, 12-9-
2019)
CHAPTER 11
TREES 1
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose And Intent
10-11-2: Application And Enforcement Of Provisions
10-11-3: Definitions
10-11-4: Protected Trees
10-11-5: Regulated Activities
10-11-6: Permit Requirements
10-11-7: Tree Replacement
10-11-8: Tree Protection Plan
10-11-9: Dangerous Or Diseased Trees
10-11-10: Inspections And Surveys
10-11-11: Appeals
10-11-12: Penalties
10-11-13: Appendix A, Species Rating Guide
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-1-13 of this code.
10-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
A.   Purpose And Intent: This chapter governs the maintenance, protection,
removal, and replacement of existing trees within the village, in order to
protect and preserve the wooded character of the village and to fulfill the
objective identified in the village comprehensive plan of maintaining,
protecting, and, as needed, replacing trees within the village.
B.   Objectives: The protection of trees as a valuable resource and integral
part of community infrastructure also accomplishes the following objectives:
1.   Stabilize valuable topsoil by preventing or minimizing unnecessary soil
erosion and sedimentation;
2.   Assist in proper stormwater runoff in order to decrease the costs
associated with flooding;
3.   Protect the important link in the hydrologic cycle that trees provide
through the transpiring of water and the neutralization of wastes that pass
through to the ground water table and other aquifers;
4.   Aid in the reduction of air pollution through the removal of harmful
carbon dioxide and the generation of oxygen;
5.   Provide a buffer and screen against noise pollution;
6.   Restore, to the greatest extent possible, denuded soil that results from
construction and grading work accompanying development;
7.   Provide a haven and nesting areas for birds, insects, and other forms of
wildlife that are essential to the maintenance of the food chain and that help
control and eliminate disease carrying mosquitoes;
8.   Reduce energy consumption through the windbreak and shade effects of
trees;
9.   Protect and increase property values in a manner that maintains each
property owner's enjoyment of his or her property;
10.   Conserve and enhance the village physical and aesthetic environment,
particularly its valuable natural and rural atmosphere;
11.   Provide important psychological and emotional benefits to residents of
and other persons within the village;
12.   Eliminate trees that constitute a threat, danger, or nuisance to the
public or to property in the village, or that may be dangerous to the health of
other trees and vegetation in the village; and
13.   Protect and enhance the quality of life and the general welfare of the
village and its residents.
14.   Recognize trees are an integral part of community infrastructure and as
such should be preserved, protected, and cared for as is other critical
infrastructure. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-5, 3-11-2024)
10-11-2: APPLICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
A.   Generally: This chapter applies to all areas and zoning districts within
the village, and will be applied and enforced by the village forester, with the
advice and assistance of the building commissioner. This chapter applies
simultaneously with other consistent provisions of this code as well as state
and federal law. If any inconsistency exists, the provision resulting in the
maximum protection and preservation of the highest quality of trees will
govern. No permits or approvals granted under any village regulation other than
this chapter will authorize the damage, removal, or replacement of any trees in
a manner which is not consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
B.   Public Trees: The village forester has the authority and responsibility to
plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees and woody plants growing in or upon
all village-owned property. All trees on public property will be planted and
maintained in accordance with the tree care standards and nursery stock
standards set forth in this code. Any contractor performing maintenance on a
protected public tree must:
   1.   Be supervised by a certified arborist; and
   2.   Maintain liability and workers compensation insurance.
C.   Modification Of Required Submittals: The village forester may, upon
consultation with the building commissioner, modify or waive portions of the
tree permit application, tree replacement plan, tree replacement mitigation
fee, or tree protection plan required by this chapter if the village forester
determines, and the building commissioner agrees, that the modification or
waiver will be consistent with the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-
9-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-5, 3-11-2024)
10-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words have
the meanings in this section. The terms, phrases, and words used in this
chapter that are not defined in this section have the meanings otherwise
ascribed to them elsewhere in this title.
 
ACTION PLAN:   The plan specified in subsection
               10-11-8C of this chapter.
ADMINISTRATIVE A document prepared by the village forester at the direction of the village
MANUAL:        board of trustees, upon consultation with the village administrator, for the
               purpose of implementing the regulations set forth in this chapter.
               Any person who files a tree permit application or is issued a tree permit,
APPLICANT:     including the owner(s) of any property for which a tree permit application is
               filed or a tree permit is received.
               The method of measurement used for nursery stock for new plantings by measuring
               the diameter of the trunk at a point six inches (6") above the existing grade or
CALIPER:       proposed planted grade for nursery trees up to and including four inches (4") in
               caliper, and at a point twelve inches (12") above the existing grade or proposed
               grade for nursery trees larger than four inches (4").
CONSERVANCY    An area designated on a recorded plat, deed or covenant to protect the natural
AREA:          features of the area.
               Any of the following listed activities, but only if, and only to the extent
               that, the activity anticipates or involves the actual or reasonably likely
               damage or removal of any tree, as determined by the village forester:
               A.   The erection, exterior alteration, exterior repair, exterior renovation,
               demolition, or removal of a building or structure of any kind.
CONSTRUCTION   B.   The paving, resurfacing, or installation of any impervious surface
ACTIVITY:      including, without limitation, driveways, patios, and decks.
               C.   The excavation, filling, grading, or clearing of all or any portion of a
               lot.
               D.   Any exterior or interior construction that requires the placement of a
               dumpster, or other similarly sized trash or refuse receptacle, on the subject
               property.
CONSTRUCTION   The area of the subject property identified as the construction activity area on
ACTIVITY AREA: the tree protection plan pursuant to section
               10-11-8 of this chapter.
CRITICAL ROOT  The area inscribed by an imaginary circular line on the ground beneath a tree
ZONE:          having as its center point the center of the trunk of the tree and a radius
               equal to one foot (1') for every inch of the trees dbh.
CRITICAL ROOT  The physical protection of the critical root zone in order to prevent damage to
ZONE           tree roots by soil compaction or other means. Critical root zone protection may
PROTECTION:    be required by the village forester for specified trees within the construction
               activity area.
               The death of a tree or a significant loss of a trees structural integrity
               including, without limitation, destruction; extraction; spraying; poisoning;
               carving; mutilating; girdling; severing the main trunk, leader, large branches
               or roots; removing any portion of the bark from the main trunk or from large
DAMAGE:        branches; touching with live wires; crushing or exposing the roots; digging or
               drilling any hole or trench within the critical root zone; filling with soil or
               other materials within the critical root zone or compacting a substantial
               portion of the soil in the critical root zone; or moving a tree to another
               location. Damage does not include the pruning of trees in accordance with the
               tree care standards.
DIAMETER       The method for measurement of trees other than nursery stock, calculated as the
BREAST HEIGHT  diameter of the trunk of a tree measured in inches at a point four and one- half
(dbh):         feet (41/2') above the existing grade at the base of the tree.
DISEASED TREE: Any tree specified in section
               10-11-9 of this chapter.
EXOTIC AND     Those species of vegetation that interfere with the health of trees as set forth
INVASIVE       in appendix A, section
SPECIES:       10-11-13 of this chapter.
FOUNDATION     Those portions of a residential building or an addition to a residential
FOOTPRINT:     building that are located within the foundation walls of the residential
               building or addition.
NURSERY STOCK  The American Standards For Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1), the most recent edition
STANDARDS:     as published by the American National Standards Institute.
               Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
PERSON:        partnership, association, society, or any other combination of human beings,
               whether legal or natural.
PROTECTED      Any tree specified in section
TREE:          10-11-4 of this chapter.
PRUNING:       The cutting or trimming of trees in accordance with the tree care standards.
PUBLIC RIGHT   Any right of way, thoroughfare, avenue, road, highway, boulevard, parkway,
OF WAY:        drive, way, lane, or court dedicated to the public.
PUBLIC TREE:   Any tree located on any public right of way.
REGULATED      Any activity specified in section
ACTIVITY:      10-11-5 of this chapter.
REMOVE OR      The physical detachment or elimination of a tree, or the effective detachment or
REMOVAL:       elimination of a tree, through damage or otherwise.
SUBDIVISION:   A change or division of any parcel of land as defined in section
               11-1-3 of this code.
SUBJECT        Any lot affected, in whole or in part, by a regulated activity. Subject property
PROPERTY:      may include lots other than the lot on which the regulated activity takes place.
               A self-supporting, woody plant, together with its root system, having a well
               defined stem or trunk or a multistemmed trunk system and a more or less well
               defined crown. The word tree does not include containerized trees or nursery
TREE:          stock trees maintained for resale. Any reference to the location of a tree
               refers only to the location of that portion of the trunk of the tree that is at
               a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above the existing grade at the base of
               the tree .
TREE CARE      The "American National Standards Institute A300 Standards (ANSI A300)", the most
STANDARDS:     recent edition as published by the International Society of Arboriculture,
               American National Standards Institute."
TREE           The existence of any tree within the village that has become an immediate danger
EMERGENCY:     or hazard to persons or property as a result of any tornado, windstorm, flood,
               freeze, natural disaster, or otherwise.
TREE           The tree inventory specified in subsection
INVENTORY:     10-11-8C of this chapter.
TREE PERMIT:   The permit required pursuant to section
               10-11-6 of this chapter.
TREE PERMIT    The application required for issuance of a tree permit pursuant to section
APPLICATION:   10-11-6 of this chapter.
TREE           The area of the subject property identified as the tree protection area on the
PROTECTION     tree protection plan pursuant to section
AREA:          10-11-8 of this chapter.
TREE           The plan required pursuant to section
PROTECTION     10-11-8 of this chapter.
PLAN:
TREE
REPLACEMENT    The fee paid in lieu of tree replacement pursuant to subsection
MITIGATION     10-11-7G of this chapter.
FEE:
TREE           A written plan that identifies each tree that will be damaged or removed and the
REPLACEMENT    method by which any damaged or removed tree will be replaced pursuant to section
PLAN:          10-11-7 of this chapter.
TREE SPECIES   The Species Ratings & Appraisal Factors For Illinois, as published by the
STANDARDS:     Illinois Arborist Association.
TREE SURVEY:   The survey required pursuant to subsection
               10-11-8C of this chapter.
               An individual designated by the village administrator as the village forester of
VILLAGE        the village, or any other person as may, from time to time, be specifically
FORESTER:      appointed by the village administrator to carry out all or any part of the
               functions of the village forester under this chapter.
VILLAGE        Title 11 of this code. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2011-23,
SUBDIVISION    11-28-2011; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022; Ord. 2024-5, 3-11-2024)
ORDINANCE:
 
10-11-4: PROTECTED TREES:
A.   Identification Of Trees By Group: Trees within the village are defined
into four (4) groups, groups A, B, C, and D, based on ratings provided in the
tree species standards for species characteristics including environmental
adaptability, biological traits, longevity, maintenance needs, and landscape
value. Group A trees are the highest rated trees, and group D trees are the
lowest rated. The complete list of species in each group is set forth in
appendix A, section
10-11-13 of this chapter.
B.   Protected Trees Designated:
1.   Protected trees are those trees in groups A, B, and C with the minimum dbh
listed below:
 
Protected Trees  Minimum DBH
All public trees 2 inches
Group A          3 inches
Group B          6 inches
Group C          10 inches
 
2.   When a protected tree has a multistemmed trunk system, the minimum dbh
shall be determined utilizing the trunk having the largest measurement as
determined by a calculation in inches at a point four and one-half feet (4.5')
above the existing grade at the base of the tree.
C.   Exclusions: Protected trees do not include trees with a dbh below the
minimum dbh as provided in subsection B of this section, group D trees, or
exotic and invasive species. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008)
10-11-5: REGULATED ACTIVITIES:
A.   Regulated Activities Designated: The following activities are regulated
activities and are subject to the provisions of this chapter:
1.   Any activity that will cause, or is reasonably likely to cause, the damage
or removal of a tree or trees with a dbh of two inches (2") or greater,
including, without limitation:
a.   The subdivision of property pursuant to the village subdivision ordinance;
b.   Any activity commenced pursuant to a variation, amendment, special use, or
planned residential development granted in accordance with this title;
c.   Any activity requiring the issuance of any permit by any village
ordinance, including, without limitation, grading, building, sewerage, water,
plumbing, or other permits; and
d.   Any activity involving construction, earthmoving, demolition, or vehicular
traffic, or any similar activity, occurring within a critical root zone.
2.   The removal of exotic and invasive species with a dbh of two inches (2")
or greater.
B.   Limitation On Damage Or Removal Of Trees: This chapter applies to the
damage or removal of any tree in the course of the regulated activities
described in this section. All regulated activities must be planned and
performed in a manner, to a degree, and with sufficient equipment and personnel
so as to: 1) reasonably involve the least amount of damage or removal of trees;
and 2) not defeat or be inconsistent with the purposes and intent of this
chapter.
C.   Regulated Activities Involving Construction: An applicant for any
regulated activity involving construction activity must submit a tree
protection plan in accordance with section
10-11-8 of this chapter and a tree replacement security in accordance with
subsection 10-11-7J of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008)
10-11-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit And Compliance Required: No person may conduct or will be entitled
to any permit for any activity associated with a regulated activity unless a
valid tree permit for the activity is issued in accordance with this chapter.
No person will be entitled to any tree permit unless the subject property, upon
the issuance of the tree permit, is in strict compliance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter and the terms and provisions of all other applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations of the village and of all other
governmental agencies having jurisdiction.
B.   Exceptions:
1.   Pruning: A tree permit is not required for the pruning of any tree in
compliance with the tree care standards.
2.   Tree Emergency: In response to notice of an existing tree emergency, the
village president, the village administrator, the building commissioner, the
deputy building commissioner, the village engineer, the village forester, the
director of public works, the police chief, and the fire chief are each
authorized to waive the requirement for a tree permit or tree permit
application. If a tree emergency occurs, the person endangered by the tree
emergency may take any reasonable action necessary to avoid or eliminate the
immediate danger or hazard. The action taken must be an action that is least
likely under the circumstances to cause damage or removal of any trees, and the
village assumes no responsibility or liability for any action taken. The person
taking the action must report the action taken to any of the above village
officials immediately after the action is taken and file an after the fact tree
application permit within forty eight (48) hours, which the village forester
will review. If the village forester determines that a tree emergency existed
which justified the damage or removal of the tree(s), an after the fact tree
permit will be issued with no permit fee charged. If the village forester
determines that no emergency existed to justify the damage or removal of the
tree(s), then the action will be deemed a violation of this chapter, and the
damaged or removed tree(s) must be replaced pursuant to this chapter.
C.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring or required to obtain a tree
permit must submit a tree permit application to the village forester on a form
provided by the village setting forth or otherwise providing the following
information:
1.   Required Information For All Applications:
a.   Applicant's name and address.
b.   Location of the subject property on which the regulated activity will
occur, including the street address or legal description, and the legal and
beneficial owner of the subject property.
c.   Legal relationship of the applicant to the subject property.
d.   The signature of the applicant and the owner of the subject property.
e.   Size of the subject property.
f.   If all or part of the subject property is located within a conservancy
area, any recorded plat, deed, or covenant that indicates or describes the
location and restrictions of the conservancy area.
g.   Number, size, species, and condition of trees that will be damaged or
removed in the course of the proposed regulated activity.
h.   Number, size, species, and condition of trees that may be damaged or
removed in the course of the proposed regulated activity or any related
activity, and steps to be taken to prevent the damage or destruction and any
necessary remedial action.
i.   Tree replacement plan in accordance with subsection 10-11-7I of this
chapter.
j.   Tree replacement security in accordance with subsection 10-11-7J of this
chapter; except, that the village forester may waive or modify this requirement
pursuant to subsection 10-11-7J5 of this chapter for certain tree permit
applications unrelated to construction activity.
k.   Other data and information as the village forester deems necessary to
allow full and fair consideration of the tree permit application and for
compliance with the goals of this chapter.
2.   Additional Information For Applications Involving Construction Activity:
Tree permit applications relating to construction activity must include the
following additional information:
a.   Location, dimensions, and current and proposed use of existing and
proposed buildings, structures, paved areas, utility lines and utility and
access easements on and adjacent to the subject property.
b.   Existing grades and proposed grades of the subject property and whether
there have ever been any drainage or stormwater runoff problems in connection
with the subject property.
c.   A tree protection plan in accordance with section
10-11-8 of this chapter.
3.   Level Of Detail: The information required by this subsection may be
submitted to the village forester in the form, detail, and degree of accuracy
as may be reasonably feasible without undertaking professional studies and
surveys.
D.   Action On Applications:
1.   Inspection Of Property: Upon receipt of a tree permit application, the
village forester will visit and inspect the subject property, as well as
contiguous and adjoining lands, to evaluate the information in the tree permit
application.
2.   Approval Of Application; Issuance Of Permit: The village forester will, in
a timely manner, review and approve the tree permit application and issue the
tree permit if the village forester determines that:
a.   The proposed regulated activity will destroy or endanger no more trees
than are reasonably necessary to achieve the applicant's objectives;
b.   The tree permit application and all required submittals, including,
without limitation, the tree replacement plan and, if required, the tree
protection plan, each satisfy the requirements of this chapter;
c.   The regulated activity will not be inconsistent with the purposes and
intent of this chapter; and
d.   The applicant has submitted the tree replacement security, if required, in
compliance with this chapter.
3.   Conditions On Approval: The village forester may approve the tree permit
application subject to the conditions necessary to protect the public welfare,
achieve the purposes of this chapter, or to prevent undue damage or removal of
trees.
4.   Denial: If the village forester determines that the tree permit
application does not satisfy the provisions of subsection C of this section or
the purposes of this chapter, the village forester will promptly notify the
applicant that the tree permit application is denied.
E.   Application And Permit Fees: An applicant must pay the following fees as
set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the categories "development fees" and "permit fees":
1) a tree permit application fee along with any consultant review fees incurred
by the village in processing the tree permit application and, if a permit is
granted; 2) a tree permit fee; provided, however, that no application or permit
fee will apply to a tree permit or tree permit application concerning the
removal of group D trees, trees with less than the minimum dbh set forth in
subsection 10-11-4C of this chapter, exotic and invasive species, or diseased
or dangerous trees pursuant to section
10-11-9 of this chapter.
F.   Posting Permit: The tree permit must be posted in a prominent location at
the subject property until the completion of the removal of all trees
contemplated by the tree permit.
G.   Expiration And Renewal Of Permit: Each tree permit will expire
automatically if the regulated activity or other activity authorized by the
tree permit is not commenced within six (6) months or completed within one year
after the tree permit is issued; provided, however, that the village forester
may, upon the written request of the applicant or the person to whom a tree
permit has been issued, grant reasonable extensions of time for commencement or
completion of the regulated activity or other activity authorized by the tree
permit.
H.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: Any tree permit issued under this
section may be revoked or suspended by the village forester if the holder of
the tree permit violates the terms of the tree permit or any of the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-5, 3-11-2024)
10-11-7: TREE REPLACEMENT:
A.   General Requirements: Any protected tree damaged or removed in the course
of a regulated activity must be replaced by the applicant pursuant to this
section and as depicted in a tree replacement plan pursuant to subsection I of
this section, regardless of whether the protected tree is located on the same
lot on which the regulated activity takes place; except, that the village
forester may, pursuant to subsection G of this section, consider a request to
submit a fee in lieu of the replacement of trees, and except for the exemptions
in subsection B of this section. No replacement tree may have a caliper less
than one and one-half inches (11/2").
B.   Exemptions: Tree replacement is not required if the Village Forester
determines that any of the following circumstances exist:
1.   When a protected tree, due to natural causes, is dead, dangerous, or
interferes with any existing or proposed public improvements, is in dangerous
proximity to any public utility lines or related facilities, or is a diseased
tree or dangerous tree or otherwise unsafe, unhealthy, or insect infected and
constitutes a hazard to persons, property, or other trees.
2.   When a protected tree, due to natural causes, obstructs any street,
sidewalk, or any pedestrian path to an extent that the protected tree
interferes with free passage and clear view along the street, sidewalk, or path
and at any street or driveway intersection.
3.   When removal of a protected tree is necessary to comply with the current
standards generally observed by professionals in the forestry profession.
4.   When the removal involves only the removal of class D trees or exotic and
invasive species and does not involve any protected tree.
5.   When the protected tree to be removed is located within the foundation
footprint of: a) a new residential building to be constructed on an undeveloped
lot in a zoning district, or b) an addition which creates additional gross
floor area for an existing residential building, provided that the combined
gross floor area for the new residential building or existing residential
building and the addition, as applicable, is compliant with the maximum gross
floor area restrictions for residential buildings under the zoning regulations
and that the new residential building or the addition, as applicable, does not
require any variations. In these events, replacement trees will be required
only for fifty percent (50%) of the removed protected trees within the
foundation footprint, at the replacement rate set forth in subsection C of this
section.
6.   When the protected tree to be removed is located within the foundation
footprint of an addition which creates additional gross floor area for a
residential building that is a Protected Building pursuant to the Village’s
historic preservation regulations (Title 9, Chapter 14 of this Code); provided,
that (i) the addition does not require any variations and (ii) the Historic
Preservation Commission has approved the addition by an affirmative vote. In
this event, replacement trees will not be required for the removed protected
trees within the construction footprint.
C.   Replacement Formula: Protected trees must be replaced by group A trees
pursuant to the replacement rate specified in this subsection. The tree
replacement rate is determined by the species of tree removed. For each inch of
dbh removed, replacement trees must be provided at the rate shown in the
following table. For example, for every inch in diameter of a removed group A
tree, each inch removed must be replaced with 1.25 inches in diameter of
replacement trees:
 
Species Removed  Diameter Of Tree Removed Replacement Rate
All public trees 1 inch                   125 percent
Group A          1 inch                   125 percent
Group B          1 inch                   75 percent
Group C          1 inch                   50 percent
 
D.   Specifications: All replacement trees must be:
1.   Provided by the applicant at the replacement rate specified in subsection
C of this section;
2.   Of a species listed in group A set forth in appendix A, section
10-11-13 of this chapter;
3.   At least one and one-half (11/2) caliper inches;
4.   In conformance with the nursery stock standards; provided, however, that
in the event that the implementation or enforcement of the nursery stock
standards conflicts with the implementation or enforcement of the tree care
standards, the provisions of the tree care standards will control;
5.   Pursuant to a written time schedule approved by the village forester;
6.   Planted in a location approved in advance by the village forester; and
7.   Inspected by the village forester prior to planting.
E.   Care Of Replacement Trees: The applicant will be solely responsible for
the care and feeding of newly planted trees for a period of two (2) years,
which time shall commence upon the issuance of a final certificate of occupancy
for the property as required pursuant to the village building regulations or,
if no final certificate of occupancy is required, upon completion of the tree
replacement plan as determined by the village forester pursuant to subsection I
of this section. The care and feeding of newly planted trees must, at a
minimum, adhere to the tree care standards.
F.   Alternative Locations: The village forester may reduce the number of
replacement trees to be planted on the subject property and designate
alternative locations for new trees on the subject property upon determining
that full tree replacement will result in unreasonable crowding of trees or
would be otherwise inconsistent with current standards generally observed by
forestry professionals. If the village forester cannot identify an appropriate
alternative location on the subject property for a tree, that tree may be
replaced by a fee in lieu of replacement pursuant to subsection G of this
section.
G.   Fee In Lieu Of Replacement:
1.   Modification Of Tree Replacement Requirement: The village forester may
waive or modify any portion of the tree replacement requirements if the village
forester determines that replacing trees at the full replacement rate provided
by subsection C of this section would:
a.   Result in the unreasonable crowding of trees upon the subject property or
upon a public right of way immediately adjacent to the subject property; or
b.   Adversely impact the viability of existing trees on the subject property;
or
c.   Not be consistent with the current standards generally observed by
professionals in the forestry profession.
2.   Calculation Of Fee: Upon a determination by the village forester that an
applicant has demonstrated one or more of the above, in lieu of providing
replacement trees at the required replacement rate, the tree replacement plan
will be modified to require the applicant to: a) replace the tree(s) at the
replacement rate in subsection C of this section; and b) pay a tree replacement
mitigation fee as provided in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "development fees". All tree
replacement mitigation fees collected by the village will be used to promote
the purposes of planting and maintaining trees in the village.
H.   Waiver Or Modification Of Provisions: Where a previous zoning or
subdivision approval contains conditions which fully accomplish the goals and
purposes of this chapter, the board of trustees may waive or modify the
requirements of this section. The waiver or modification may be revoked at any
time that any condition imposed pursuant to the approval is violated.
I.   Tree Replacement Plan:
1.   Required: A tree replacement plan must be filed with all tree permit
applications for a regulated activity involving the replacement of one or more
protected trees.
2.   Contents Of Plan: A tree replacement plan must contain the following
information:
a.   A brief description of the applicant's plan for the replacement of
protected trees in accordance with the requirements in this section. The
description must specifically include, without limitation, the replacement and
planting methods and technologies that the applicant intends to employ in order
to satisfy the requirements of this section.
b.   The number, size, species, and proposed location of the trees that the
applicant is required to plant or replant, if any, pursuant to the requirements
of this section.
c.   Other data and information as the village forester deems necessary in
order to comply with the requirements of this chapter, as set forth in the
administrative manual.
3.   Inspection; Compliance With Plan: Upon notification from the applicant
that the requirements of the tree replacement plan have been completed, the
village forester will inspect the property to determine compliance with the
tree replacement plan. No final certificate of occupancy may be issued for the
property until the village forester approves of the implementation of the tree
replacement plan.
J.   Security Requirements:
1.   Security Required: Every tree replacement plan must be accompanied by a
tree replacement security, except as modified or waived by the village forester
pursuant to subsection J5 of this section. The tree replacement security must
consist of:
a.   A cash deposit to be held in escrow by the village;
b.   An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a lender authorized to issue the
letter by any state or by the United States;
c.   A bond with good and sufficient surety; or
d.   Another form of security approved by the village administrator.
2.   Amount: The amount of the tree replacement security will be determined by
the village forester and must be equal to three (3) times the total actual cost
of strictly complying with and fully implementing the tree replacement plan,
with any applicable adjustment for cost of living increases and/or inflation.
3.   Replenishment Of Security: If, at any time, the village forester
determines that the funds remaining in the tree replacement security are not or
may not be sufficient to pay, in full, the total actual costs of strictly
complying with and fully implementing the tree replacement plan, then, within
ten (10) days following a demand by the village, the applicant must increase
the amount of the tree replacement security to an amount determined by the
village forester to be sufficient to pay the uncovered costs. Failure to so
increase the amount of the tree replacement security will be grounds for the
village to retain or draw down any remaining balance of the tree replacement
security.
4.   Return Of Security: Upon completion of the tree replacement plan pursuant
to subsection I3 of this section, the tree replacement security, or any
remainder thereof, will be returned or released to the applicant.
5.   Limited Waiver: Where a tree permit application concerns the damage or
removal of trees unrelated to construction activity, the village forester may,
upon consultation with the building commissioner, modify or waive the
requirement for submittal of the tree replacement security if the village
forester determines that the tree replacement security is not necessary for the
limited damage or removal and that the purposes of this chapter will be
fulfilled without submittal of the tree replacement security.
K.   Failure To Comply:
1.   Notice: If, at any time, the village forester determines that the
applicant has failed to comply with or implement the tree replacement plan, the
village forester will cause notice of the failure to be served upon the
applicant and will order the applicant to fully comply with the tree
replacement plan within fourteen (14) days following mailing or personal
delivery of the notice. The notice must be personally served or sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the applicant and must notify the
applicant that, absent an appeal pursuant to subsection K3 of this section,
unless full compliance with the tree replacement plan is achieved within
fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing or personal delivery of the notice,
the village may proceed to perform or cause to be performed work the village
forester determines necessary to achieve full compliance with the tree
replacement plan.
2.   Opportunity To Comply: Absent an appeal pursuant to subsection K3 of this
section, within thirty (30) days following mailing or personal delivery of the
required notice, the applicant must take action as is necessary to strictly
comply with and implement the tree replacement plan.
3.   Appeal: Within fourteen (14) days following personal delivery or mailing
of the required notice, the applicant may appeal the village forester's
determination by filing a written notice of appeal with the village
administrator. The filing of an appeal will toll the thirty (30) day period in
which the applicant is required to take action pursuant to subsection K2 of
this section from the date on which the village administrator receives the
applicant's notice of appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the village
administrator will review all reliable and relevant documents and information
pertaining to the village forester's determination. The village administrator
must render a written decision on the appeal no later than fourteen (14) days
after the village administrator receives the written notice of appeal. The
village administrator must notify the applicant of the village administrator's
decision within two (2) days after the decision and must provide the applicant
a copy of the decision. The action taken by the village administrator will be
final. The tolling of the thirty (30) day period will cease upon the
applicant's receipt or notice of the village administrator's decision.
4.   Village Right To Complete Work: If the applicant neglects or refuses to
fully comply with and implement the tree replacement plan within the thirty
(30) day period pursuant to this subsection, then the village forester, with
the consent of the village administrator, and, if applicable, upon the denial
of any applicable appeal, will be authorized to perform or to cause to be
performed work necessary to ensure strict compliance with and full
implementation of the tree replacement plan. The village forester will have the
right to deduct, liquidate, draw down, or apply an amount equivalent to three
(3) times the actual costs of the work from the tree replacement security, as
well as to exercise all other rights and remedies available to the village,
including, without limitation, any applicable lien rights. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-
2008; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2011-23, 11-28-2011; Ord. 2022-10, 3-28-2022)
10-11-8: TREE PROTECTION PLAN:
A.   Plan Required: If a regulated activity includes construction activity, the
applicant must, in addition to the tree replacement plan, submit a tree
protection plan with the tree permit application.
B.   Construction Activity Area: The construction activity area is the area of
the subject property that is the smallest area reasonably needed to undertake
the proposed construction activity as determined by the village forester. The
construction activity area must include the entire area affected by the
proposed construction activity and must also include any access route across
the public right of way and the private tree preservation area. Construction
activity must not be conducted or staged in any area of the subject property
located outside the construction activity area. No excess soil, additional
fill, liquids, or any construction debris may be placed or located outside the
construction activity area. Any temporary buildings, structures, and driveways
constructed for or associated with the construction activity must be located so
as to reasonably involve the least amount of damage or removal of trees, but
must nevertheless be consistent with minimum building setback requirements of
this title.
C.   Contents Of Plan: A tree protection plan must consist of a site plan of
the subject property upon which the information described in this subsection
must be graphically and accurately marked.
1.   Location of the subject property, including street address and legal
description.
2.   Existing and proposed contours of the lot on which the construction
activity is to take place.
3.   Existing and proposed buildings or structures on the lot.
4.   Proposed building elevations, if applicable.
5.   Proposed work access areas and routes.
6.   The name of the general contractor or project representative, if any,
responsible for the proposed construction activity.
7.   A demonstration of the ways in which the applicant will ensure that the
tree protection required by this section will be achieved.
8.   A tree inventory for the subject property, consisting of a list of the
following trees, identified by tag number: a) all the existing protected trees
on the subject property; b) all trees on adjacent properties that are within
ten feet (10') of the property line or that have a critical root zone extending
into the subject property; and c) all public trees adjacent to the subject
property or that may be impacted by any regulated activity. The tree inventory
must list, without limitation, the following data for each tree: tag number,
species, size in dbh, condition rating, form rating, and any observed problems.
9.   A tree survey for the subject property, which depicts the location and tag
number of each tree described in the tree inventory. The tree survey must
include, without limitation, a legend referencing the tag number, dbh, species,
general condition, and proposed disposition of existing protected trees located
on or near the subject property and trees other than protected trees that are
reasonably likely to be damaged or removed during the construction activity.
The tree survey must also depict the planned location of all proposed trees to
be planted or replanted on or near the subject property pursuant to the tree
replacement plan.
10.   An action plan for the subject property, consisting of a listing of the
trees on the subject property, in chart form, that identifies each tree by tag
number and shows, for each tree, the following information: species, size in
dbh, condition, form, percent of critical root zone saved, and the anticipated
damage, removal, tree protection measures, or other action to be taken
regarding each tree.
11.   Detailed specifications for maintenance and protection of protected trees
and for the maintenance and protection of trees other than protected trees that
are reasonably likely to be damaged or removed during implementation of the
proposed construction activity, including, without limitation, proposed
measures such as construction pruning, root pruning, critical root zone
protection, installation of a retaining wall or high visibility fencing, and
auguring of utility lines when auguring is determined by the village forester
to be necessary to improve the chances of tree survival.
12.   Detailed specifications for tree protection fencing on the subject
property, to be placed at a minimum: a) along the property frontage from
property line to property line to completely separate the construction activity
area; and b) around the critical root zone of each protected tree. These
specifications must also include the identification and clear delineation on
the site plan of the construction activity area and the tree protection area
and their respective perimeters.
D.   Protection Area: The tree protection area is the area of the subject
property not included in the construction activity area. No construction
activity may be conducted in the tree protection area. All reasonable measures
and protective materials must be employed to preserve and safeguard trees
located within the tree protection area. Protective materials must include,
without limitation, the temporary installation of high visibility fencing or
other similar materials in the sizes and at the locations specifically approved
by the village forester. All protective measures and materials must be in place
and approved by the village forester prior to the commencement of any
construction activity. Protective materials may not be removed until the
village forester approves the removal after the completion of all construction
activity. No attachments, fences, or wires, other than those approved for
bracing, guying, or wrapping, may be attached to any protected tree during the
construction activity.
E.   Stop Work Order:
1.   If the protective measures and materials required by this section, or any
other related measures or materials otherwise required by this chapter, are not
fully implemented and completely constructed prior to commencement of
construction activity, the village forester or the building commissioner may
issue a stop work order until the applicant fully complies with the
requirements of this chapter.
2.   If protective measures and materials constructed and employed on the
subject property are not adequately maintained in a manner that protects
protected trees and the tree protection area, the village forester may issue a
stop work order until the measures and materials are repaired, restored, and
constructed to the satisfaction of the village forester. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-
2008)
10-11-9: DANGEROUS OR DISEASED TREES:
A.   Diseased Trees: The following trees are trees that are diseased and will
be referred to as "diseased trees":
1.   Trees of any species or variety infected with Dutch elm disease or oak
wilt, as determined by laboratory analysis or by any other reliable means.
2.   Trees or parts thereof of elm or zelkova, or of any other species, in a
dead or dying condition that are infested with or may serve as breeding places
for the European elm bark beetle, Dutch elm disease, or oak wilt.
3.   Trees or parts thereof of ash or any other species that are infested with
or may serve as breeding places for the emerald ash borer.
B.   Dangerous Trees:
1.   Every owner or occupant of any house, building, lot or premises in the
village must keep trees located on his property trimmed and maintained so as to
prevent or remove the following conditions:
a.   Any tree which is dead, dangerous, or likely to fall or that is so unsafe,
unhealthy, diseased, or insect infested as to constitute a hazard to persons,
property or other vegetation;
b.   The obstruction of any street or sidewalk to any extent which interferes
with free passage and clear view along the streets and sidewalks and at any
street or driveway intersection;
c.   The obstruction of any sewer, drainageway, or septic field;
d.   The dangerous proximity of any tree to public utility lines; and
e.   The interference with any existing or proposed public improvement.
2.   Any trees causing any of these conditions will be referred to as
"dangerous trees".
C.   Nuisance Declared And Prohibited: Dangerous trees and diseased trees are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep, maintain, or possess a dangerous tree or a diseased tree located on any
property in the village.
D.   Notice Of Dangerous Or Diseased Trees: Whenever a dangerous tree or
diseased tree is found to exist, the village forester will cause notice of the
nuisance to be served upon the owner and the occupant of the property where the
dangerous or diseased tree is found, and will order the owner and occupant to
abate the nuisance within thirty (30) days following mailing or personal
delivery of the notice. The notice must also: 1) notify the owner and the
occupant that, unless the nuisance is abated within the thirty (30) day period,
the village may proceed to abate the nuisance, assess the cost thereof against
the property owner or occupant, and impose a lien for the cost on the affected
property; 2) include a copy of this chapter, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-20-12, the identification of the property, by common description, and the
subject dangerous or diseased tree or trees; and 3) be personally served or
sent by registered mail to the person to whom was sent the last preceding
general tax bill for the property upon which the dangerous or diseased tree is
located. A copy of said notice must also be mailed to the occupant of the
property if the occupant is not the same person to whom the notice is
addressed.
E.   Abatement Procedures; Lien Provisions: Within thirty (30) days following
delivery or mailing of the notice required by subsection D of this section, the
owner or the occupant of the property must cause the nuisance to be removed or
otherwise abated. If the owner or occupant neglects or refuses to abate the
nuisance as required by the notice issued pursuant to subsection D of this
section, the village forester will promptly cause the abatement of the nuisance
by village employees or contractors. If the village forester so causes the
abatement of the nuisance, all direct or indirect expenses incurred in
connection therewith, including the cost of collection, will be assessed
against the property owner. In the event the expenses are not paid upon
billing, the village clerk, not more than sixty (60) days after performance of
the work, may file a notice of lien against the property for the amount of the
expenses in the manner provided by statute.
F.   Determination Of Diseased Trees: The village forester may, from time to
time, conduct tests, analyses, and inspections as the village forester
determines necessary to determine the existence of diseased trees throughout
the village. All tests, analyses, and inspections will be at the sole cost and
expense of the village. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008)
10-11-10: INSPECTIONS AND SURVEYS:
The village forester will, on a regular basis, conduct inspections and surveys
as necessary to monitor the trees in the village and to determine the
existence, nature, and extent of violations of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-
9-2008)
10-11-11: APPEALS:
A.   Overview: The appeal procedure is provided as a safeguard against
arbitrary, ill considered, or erroneous administrative decisions. It is
intended to avoid the need for resort to legal action by establishing local
procedures to review and correct administrative errors. It is not, however,
intended as means to subvert the clear purposes, meanings, or intents of this
chapter or the rightful authority of the village forester to enforce the
requirements of this chapter. To these ends, the reviewing body should give all
proper deference to the spirit and intent embodied in the language of this
chapter and to the reasonable interpretations of that language by those charged
with the administration of this chapter.
B.   Appeal To Village Administrator: Appeals from any decision of the village
forester may be taken by an applicant or any other person adversely affected by
the decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the village
administrator within five (5) days following receipt or notice of the village
forester's decision. Upon receipt of the written notice of appeal, the village
administrator will review the relevant evidence, documents, or information, and
may receive and consider new evidence. The village administrator will render a
written decision and transmit such decision to the appealing party within
fourteen (14) days after receipt of the written notice of appeal. The decision
of the village administrator will be final except for appeals to the board of
trustees pursuant to subsection C of this section.
C.   Final Appeal To Village Board Of Trustees: In cases concerning tree
replacement requiring a replacement rate pursuant to subsection 10-11-7C of
this chapter of one hundred inches (100") or more, a party may appeal the
village administrator's decision to the board of trustees within fourteen (14)
days after its transmittal to that party by filing a written notice of final
appeal with the board of trustees. Upon receipt of the written notice of final
appeal, the board of trustees will review the relevant evidence, documents, or
information and may receive and consider new evidence. Within thirty (30) days
after receipt of the written notice of final appeal, the village board of
trustees will render a written decision at a regularly scheduled meeting. Such
decision may reverse, affirm, or modify, in whole or in part, the action
appealed from and may include such order or determination as, in the opinion of
the board of trustees, is proper to be made in the circumstances. If no
regularly scheduled meeting occurs within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
notice of final appeal, the board of trustees will render its written decision
at the next regularly scheduled board meeting thereafter. The written decision
of the village board of trustees will be final.
D.   Stay Of Regulated Activities: The filing of a written notice of appeal
pursuant to this section will operate as a stay of the regulated activities
related to that appeal, and no such regulated activity may proceed until a
final decision is rendered on the appeal pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2008-
22, 9-9-2008)
10-11-12: PENALTIES:
Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with, violates, or assists in the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any order, permit, or
notice issued pursuant hereto, will be subject to a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each tree which is removed or damaged
will constitute a separate violation. Each day any violation continues will
constitute a distinct and separate violation. In addition to the penalties
provided in this section, any damaged or removed tree must be replaced pursuant
to the tree replacement requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008;
amd. 2009 Code)
10-11-13: APPENDIX A, SPECIES RATING GUIDE:
The intent of this guide is to identify tree species by genetic quality and
community value and to assign them to a species group based on these two (2)
criteria. The species groups are noted as A, B, C, and D. Species group A is
the most highly rated group. Species group D is the lowest rated group and
includes the tree species that are not protected in this chapter. The species
rating guide is the basis for assessing the relative value of trees to be
protected and mitigated if they are damaged or removed.
This guide represents the tree species that are considered to be the most
common tree species in the community. This guide is not an attempt to list all
tree species that could successfully grow in the community. In the event that
the village forester encounters a tree species that is not listed in this
rating guide, then it shall be the responsibility of the village forester to
assign that tree species to the appropriate species group.
SPECIES GROUP A
Canopy trees:
Aesculus glabra                  Ohio buckeye
Carya cordiformis                Bitternut hickory
Carya ovata                      Shagbark hickory
Celtis occidentalis              Hackberry
Cladrastis lutea                 American yellowwood
Corylus colurna                  Turkish filbert
Fagus grandiflora                American beech
Fagus sylvatica                  European beech
Ginkgo biloba                    Ginkgo (male)
Gymnocladus dioicus              Kentucky coffeetree
Quercus alba                     White oak
Quercus bicolor                  Swamp white oak
Quercus ellipsoidalis            Hill's oak
Quercus imbricaria               Shingle oak
Quercus macrocarpa               Bur oak
Quercus muehlenbergii            Chinquapin oak
Quercus prinus                   Chestnut oak
Quercus rubra                    Red oak
Tilia Americana                  American linden (basswood)
Understory/ornamental trees:
Acer campestre                   Hedge maple
Acer ginnala                     Amur maple
Acer griseum                     Paperback maple
Acer palmatum                    Japanese maple
Amelanchier                      Serviceberry
Carpinus caroliniana             American hornbeam (blue beech)
Cercis canadensis                Redbud
Chionanthus virginicus           White fringe tree
Cornus alternafolia              Pagoda dogwood
Cornus kousa                     Kousa dogwood
Cornus mas                       Cornelian cherry dogwood
Crataegus grus-galli             Cockspur hawthorn
Crataegus phaenopyrum            Washington hawthorn
Malus spp.                       Crabapple
Ostrya virginiana                American hophornbeam (ironwood)
Syringa pekinensis               Pekin lilac
Syringa reticulata               Japanese tree lilac
Evergreen trees:
Juniperous virginiana            Eastern red cedar
                                 Techny arborvitae (when used as a replacement
                                 tree pursuant to subsection
Thuja occidentalis techny        10-11-7D2 of this chapter but not for purposes
                                 of calculating the replacement formula for
                                 tree removal pursuant to subsection
                                 10-11-7C of this chapter)
SPECIES GROUP B
Canopy trees:
Acer rubrum                      Red maple
Acer saccharum                   Sugar maple
Betula nigra                     River birch
Cercidiphyllum japonicum         Katsura tree
Gleditsia triacanthos f. inermis Thornless honey locust
Juglans nigra                    Black walnut
Liriodendron tulipifera          Tuliptree
Metasequoia glyptostroboides     Dawn redwood
Phellodendron amurense           Amur corktree
Platanus x acerifolia            London planetree
Populas tremuloides              Quaking aspen
Quercus palustris                Pin oak
Quercus robur                    English oak
Sophora japonica                 Japanese pagodatree
Taxodium distichum               Bald cypress
Tilia cordata                    Littleleaf linden
Tilia x euchlora "Redmond"       Redmond linden
Ulmus                            Hybrid elm
Ulmus parvifolia                 Chinese elm
Understory/ornamental trees:
Aesculus parviflora              Bottlebrush buckeye
Aesculus pavia                   Red buckeye
Alnus glutinosa                  European alder
Betula platyphlla                Whitespire birch
Carpinus betulus                 European hornbeam
Magnolia x soulangiana           Saucer magnolia
Parrotia persica                 Persian parrotia
Prunus americana                 American plum
Prunus padus                     European bird cherry
Pyrus calleryana                 Callery pear
Evergreen trees:
Abies concolor                   White fir (concolor fir)
Picea abies                      Norway spruce
Picea glauca                     White spruce
Picea pungens                    Colorado spruce
Pinus strobus                    White pine
Pseudotsuga menziesii            Douglas fir
SPECIES GROUP C
Canopy trees:
Acer platanoides                 Norway maple
Acer saccharinum                 Silver maple
Catalpa speciosa                 Catalpa
Liquidambar styraciflua          Sweetgum
Platanus occidentalis            Sycamore
Populus deltoides                Cottonwood (male)
Prunus serotina                  Black cherry
Robinia pseudoacacia             Black locust
Salix alba                       White willow
Salix nigra                      Black willow
Salix niobe                      Weeping willow
Ulmus americana                  American elm
Ulmus rubra                      Red elm
Ulmus thomasii                   Rock elm
Understory/ornamental trees:
Betula papyrifera                Paper birch
Crataegus laevigata              English hawthorn
Crataegus mollis                 Downy hawthorn
Prunus virginiana                Common chokecherry
Sorbis americana                 American mountain ash
Zelkova serrata                  Zelkova
Evergreen trees:
Pinus nigra                      Austrian pine
Pinus resinosa                   Red pine
Pinus sylvestris                 Scotch pine
                                 Techny arborvitae (for the purpose of
                                 calculating the replacement formula for
Thuja occidentalis techny        removal of this tree species pursuant to
                                 subsection 10-11-7C of this chapter but not
                                 when used as a replacement tree pursuant to
                                 subsection 10-11-7D2 of this chapter)
SPECIES GROUP D
Acer negundo                     Boxelder maple
Ailanthus altissima              Tree of heaven
Elaeagnus angustifolia           Russian olive
Fraxinus americana               White ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica           Green ash
Fraxinus quadrangulata           Blue ash
Morse speciosa                   Mulberry spp.
Populus alba                     White poplar
Populus deltoides                Cottonwood (female)
Populus nigra "italica"          Lombardy poplar
Rhamnus cathartica               Buckthorn
Ulmus pumila                     Siberian elm
 
(Ord. 2008-22, 9-9-2008; amd. Ord. 2011-23, 11-28-2011)
CHAPTER 12
BLUFFS AND RAVINES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose And Intent
10-12-2: Application Of Provisions
10-12-3: Setback Requirements
10-12-4: Buildings And Structures
10-12-5: Construction Activity In Bluff And Ravine Protection Areas
10-12-6: Construction Activity On Bluff And Ravine Property
10-12-7: Protection And Maintenance Of Bluff And Ravine Property
10-12-8: Walkout Basements
10-12-9: Nonconformities
10-12-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The village ravine and bluff areas provide a unique natural resource to the
village and to its residents that must be preserved and protected. Bluffs and
ravines are inherently fragile and subject to erosion due to glacially formed
soils containing unstable sediment, rock, and silt. Development and
construction activity in and around bluffs and ravines could be hazardous to
people and property and could accelerate the erosion process. The purpose and
intent of this chapter is to accomplish the following goals through the
establishment of reasonable regulations to protect and maintain bluffs and
ravines in the village:
A.   Protect people and property against damage or destruction caused by
accelerated erosion resulting from development and construction activities in
or around bluffs and ravines.
B.   Protect bluffs and ravines against unnecessary damage or destruction
caused by certain development and construction activities.
C.   Maintain proper water runoff in order to decrease the effects of erosion
on bluffs and ravines.
D.   Minimize the disruption or alteration of natural drainage occurring in or
around bluffs and ravines.
E.   Protect the property values of properties on which bluffs and ravines are
located.
F.   Preserve and enhance the physical and aesthetic qualities of bluffs and
ravines by, among other things, minimizing the disruption or damage to existing
vegetation. (Ord. 99-9, 3-8-1999)
10-12-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply generally and uniformly to all areas
and zoning districts within village. The provisions of this chapter shall also
apply cumulatively and simultaneously with the other provisions of this title
and the village subdivision regulations and building codes, and no approvals or
permits issued pursuant to such regulations or codes shall be deemed to
authorize any activity that does not also comply with the applicable provisions
of this chapter. Furthermore, if ever a provision of this chapter and another
provision in this title or the village subdivision regulations or building
codes are inconsistent, provisions resulting in the maximum protection and
preservation of bluffs and ravines shall govern, except where limited by law.
(Ord. 99-9, 3-8-1999)
10-12-3: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Ravines: Except as otherwise expressly provided in subsection C of this
section, no principal structure or building, no accessory structure or building
that requires the issuance of a building permit pursuant to this code, and no
driveway shall be erected or altered on any lot so as to place any portion of
any such building, structure, or driveway within ten feet (10') from any top
ravine edge.
B.   Bluffs:
1.   Principal Structures And Buildings: Except as otherwise expressly provided
in subsection C of this section, no principal structure or building or driveway
shall be erected or altered on any lot so as to place any portion of any such
building, structure, or driveway within forty feet (40') from any top bluff
edge.
2.   Small Accessory Structures And Buildings: Except as otherwise expressly
provided in subsection C of this section, no accessory structure or building
that is equal to or less than four hundred forty (440) square feet in area and
that requires the issuance of a building permit pursuant to this code shall be
erected or altered on any lot so as to place any portion of any such building
or structure within ten feet (10') from any top bluff edge.
3.   Large Accessory Structures And Buildings: Except as otherwise expressly
provided in subsection C of this section, no accessory structure or building
that is greater than four hundred forty (440) square feet in area and that
requires the issuance of a building permit pursuant to this code shall be
erected or altered on any lot so as to place any portion of any such building
or structure closer to any top bluff edge than ten feet (10'), plus an
additional 0.053 feet for every one foot (1') that the accessory structure or
building exceeds four hundred forty (440) square feet in area.
C.   Exceptions:
1.   Nonimpervious And Other Improvements: Notwithstanding the setback
requirements in subsections A and B of this section, any nonimpervious
improvement including, without limitation, a paver patio, and any other
improvement that does not require the issuance of a building permit pursuant to
this code, including, without limitation, a swing set or similar apparatus, may
be located up to but no further than the top ravine edge of a ravine or the top
bluff edge of a bluff, as the case may be; provided, however, that such
improvement does not, as determined in advance by the village engineer,
adversely affect stormwater drainage or unnecessarily accelerate erosion of the
bluff or ravine or otherwise create a hazardous condition or public nuisance.
2.   Swimming Pools: Notwithstanding the setback requirements in subsections A
and B of this section:
a.   No swimming pool shall be located within twenty feet (20') from any top
ravine edge; and
b.   No swimming pool shall be located within forty feet (40') from any top
bluff edge. (Ord. 99-9, 3-8-1999; amd. Ord. 99-15, 5-24-1999)
10-12-4: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
A.   General Prohibition: Except as expressly permitted pursuant to subsection
B of this section, no principal or accessory building or structure, no
permanent fence, and no other at grade improvement of any kind shall be
constructed, placed, or maintained in any bluff or ravine.
B.   Permitted Structures: Notwithstanding the general prohibition set forth in
subsection A of this section, the following improvements may be permitted in a
bluff or ravine in accordance with the regulations of this subsection and the
other applicable regulations of this chapter, provided such improvement would
not, as determined in advance by the village engineer, adversely affect
stormwater drainage, or unnecessarily accelerate erosion of the bluff or
ravine, or otherwise create a hazardous condition or public nuisance:
1.   Paths And Steps At Grade: Paths and steps at grade of no greater than six
feet (6') in width shall be allowed in any bluff or in any ravine.
2.   Decks:
a.   Ravines: Decks and other similarly elevated structures shall be allowed to
extend over the top ravine edge of a ravine; provided, however, that no pier
foundations or supports shall be placed or maintained on or beyond the top
ravine edge.
b.   Bluffs: Decks and other similarly elevated structures shall be allowed to
extend over the top bluff edge of a bluff and to be located in a bluff.
3.   Benches: Benches shall be allowed to be located or maintained within a
bluff or ravine.
4.   Stairs: Stairs and associated landings shall be permitted in any ravine or
bluff that is located on bluff/ravine property that is at least one and one-
half (1.5) acres.
5.   Electric Lift Systems: An electric lift system, and associated equipment
and appurtenances thereto, shall be permitted on a bluff upon the issuance of a
special use permit pursuant to subsection
10-2C-3 of this title; provided, however, that: a) only one electric lift
system may be permitted on a property; and b) as a condition of issuance of the
special use permit, the owner agrees in writing to permit the Village to
inspect the electric lift system at least once a year to confirm that the
electric lift system complies with all applicable provisions of this code and
the special use permit. (Ord. 2016-17, 6-27-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-
2022)
10-12-5: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY IN BLUFF AND RAVINE PROTECTION AREAS:
A.   General Prohibition: Except as expressly permitted pursuant to subsection
B of this section, no construction activities, including, without limitation,
grading, excavating, filling, terracing, or stockpiling or dumping of excavated
material, shall be permitted in any bluff or ravine protection area.
B.   Permitted Construction Activities: Notwithstanding the general prohibition
set forth in subsection A of this section, the following construction
activities shall be permitted in a bluff or ravine protection area, with the
prior approval of the village engineer and in accordance with the following
regulations and other applicable regulations of this chapter:
1.   Erosion control and slope stabilization activities.
2.   Public utility and other public improvement projects.
3.   Drainage improvements that are necessary to prevent or mitigate erosion.
4.   General maintenance and landscaping, including the removal of diseased,
dead, or damaged trees.
5.   Action necessary to remediate an unstable or unsecure slope that poses an
imminent danger to persons or property.
6.   The construction of an electric lift system on a bluff in accordance with
section
10-12-4 of this chapter.
C.   Protection Standards: All construction activities permitted pursuant to
this subsection shall be performed in a manner: 1) to cause the least possible
disruption of the natural features of a bluff or ravine protection area; and 2)
to be consistent with the purposes and intent of this chapter as expressed in
section
10-12-1 of this chapter. Specifically, during any such permitted construction
activities, natural drainage shall be maintained to the maximum extent
possible. Runoff from impervious surfaces shall be conveyed to existing storm
sewers, wherever possible, or, if approved by the village engineer, channeled
into the bluff or ravine in a manner to minimize the impact or damage to the
bluff or ravine protection area. (Ord. 99-9, 3-8-1999; amd. Ord. 2016-17, 6-27-
2016)
10-12-6: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY ON BLUFF AND RAVINE PROPERTY:
The following restrictions and requirements shall apply to all construction
activities on bluff/ravine property:
A.   Plat Of Survey Required: Unless otherwise waived by the village engineer,
any application for a building permit for any construction activity on any
bluff/ravine property shall include a plat of survey prepared within one year
of the date of application for the subject permit. The plat shall be sealed by
a licensed surveyor and shall include, at a minimum, the following elements and
information:
1.   The lot lines of the bluff/ravine property;
2.   The curvilinear line defining the top ravine edge or top bluff edge, or
both, as the case may be (see section
10-13-1, illustrations 15A and 15B of this title);
3.   The total square footage of the bluff/ravine property along with
supporting calculations;
4.   The location of all existing improvements on the bluff/ravine property in
relation to the top ravine edge or the top bluff edge, or both, as the case may
be;
5.   The location of all proposed new improvements in relation to the top
ravine edge or the top bluff edge, or both, as the case may be, clearly
distinguished from existing improvements (see section
10-13-1, illustrations 15A and 15B of this title);
6.   The existing and proposed grades;
7.   The existing and proposed top of foundation elevations, using the same
elevation data as used for site grades;
8.   Bench mark with elevation and location clearly defined;
9.   The location of all existing and proposed utility lines, including storm
drainage facilities; and
10.   A demonstration of the ways in which the applicant will ensure that all
construction activities are in compliance with this chapter and that all such
activities will be performed in a manner: a) to cause the least possible
disruption of the natural features of a bluff or ravine protection area; and b)
to be consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter as expressed in
section
10-12-1 of this chapter.
B.   Fencing: A temporary fence shall be erected along a line that is ten feet
(10') from the top ravine edge or top bluff edge, or both, as the case may be,
during any development or construction activity on bluff/ravine property. For
any construction activity that is permitted pursuant to this chapter to be
within said ten foot (10') area, such fencing as the village engineer shall
determine is necessary to prevent adverse impacts on the ravine or bluff, or
both, as the case may be, shall be required. Any such fence shall be removed
upon completion of the development or construction activity.
C.   Grading And Restoration: Upon completion of any development or
construction activity on bluff/ravine property, appropriate grading and
restoration work shall be performed, as required by the village engineer, in
order to ensure protection of the bluff and ravine protection areas. (Ord. 99-
9, 3-8-1999)
10-12-7: PROTECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF BLUFF AND RAVINE PROPERTY:
A.   Filling And Dumping Prohibited: No garbage, construction debris, or
landscaping materials shall be dumped or filled in any bluff or ravine
protection area.
B.   Drainage: Measures shall be required to control stormwater runoff from
structures and other improved surfaces on bluff/ravine properties. Wherever
feasible, such runoff shall be collected and carried to municipal storm
drainage facilities located away from ravines and bluffs. If discharge directly
into municipal storm drainage facilities is not feasible, drainage shall be
collected and discharged directly into the base of the ravine or bluff channel
via continuous, nonperforated drain lines designed to collect stormwater runoff
prior to the runoff reaching the ravine or bluff area. Such drainage lines
shall be buried on the slopes of the ravine or bluff, and required excavations
shall be located to minimize damage to trees and the slope of the ravine or
bluff. In no event shall the point source discharge of water be allowed on or
near any side of any ravine or bluff. A complete site drainage plan shall be
required as part of the site plan submittal required pursuant to subsection 10-
12-6A of this chapter.
C.   Vegetation: Native vegetation shall be maintained to the greatest extent
possible within all bluff and ravine protection areas. Section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 16, provides a nonexclusive list of native
vegetation that bluff/ravine property owners are encouraged to utilize within
all bluff and ravine protection areas. (Ord. 99-9, 3-8-1999)
10-12-8: WALKOUT BASEMENTS:
Notwithstanding the otherwise applicable provisions of subsection 10-5-6B1 of
this title, for any principal structure on bluff/ravine property that has a
walkout basement with a rear wall located in a ravine or within a ravine
protection area, a percentage of the floor area of the walkout basement shall
be included in the gross floor area of the bluff/ravine property. The total
additional square footage to be included in the gross floor area calculation
for any such walkout basement shall be forty percent (40%) of the total area,
in square feet, of all portions of the finished floor that are enclosed by
lines extending perpendicular from the basement wall facing the ravine to the
opposite basement wall across the full width of the exposed portion of the
basement wall at a height of two feet (2') above grade. The resulting square
footage shall be included in the gross floor area of the bluff/ravine property.
See section
10-13-1 of this title, illustration 17. (Ord. 99-9, 3-8-1999)
10-12-9: NONCONFORMITIES:
A.   Damage Or Destruction:
1.   If all or any part of any structure, building, or any other type of at
grade improvement that is, as of March 9, 1999, nonconforming with regard to
the provisions of this chapter, is damaged, destroyed, or torn down by any
means, whether or not within the control of the owner thereof, then the
particular type of structure, building, or improvement may be repaired,
restored, rehabilitated, or rebuilt; provided, however, that no such repair,
restoration, rehabilitation, or rebuilding shall be made that would create any
new nonconformity or that would increase the degree of any nonconformity
existing prior to such damage, destruction, or tear down, as provided in
subsection B of this section.
2.   Notwithstanding subsection A1 of this section, all such repairs,
restorations, rehabilitations, and rebuilding shall be in strict conformity
with the applicable zoning district regulations and with the regulations of
this chapter unless a building permit is obtained and restoration is actually
begun within one year after the date of such damage, destruction, or tear down
and is diligently pursued to completion.
B.   Horizontal Extension; Change In Type Of Structure: For purposes of this
section, the horizontal extension of a nonconforming structure, or the change
in the type of structure, shall be construed to increase the degree of the
existing nonconformity of the structure unless such horizontal extension or
such change in the type of structure conforms to all applicable zoning
regulations including the regulations set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 99-15,
5-24-1999)
CHAPTER 13
ILLUSTRATIONS AND EXHIBITS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Illustrations
10-13-2: Sign Exhibits
10-13-3: Zoning Use Table
10-13-1: ILLUSTRATIONS:
ILLUSTRATION 1
YARD TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.png]
ILLUSTRATION 2
LOT TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.png]
ILLUSTRATION 2a
FLAG LOT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.png]
ILLUSTRATION 3
LOT WIDTH AND LOT DEPTH
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.png]
ILLUSTRATION 4
SETBACK EXCEPTIONS - UNDER EAVES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.png]
Roof eaves and other ornamental features, including downspouts and gutters, are
permitted to extend a maximum of twenty four inches (24") into a required
setback.
ILLUSTRATION 5
FRONT YARD SETBACK EXCEPTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.png]
Steps leading to the principal structure may extend into the required front
yard setback a maximum of four feet (4') provided that such steps shall not
exceed 5.5 feet in width, and the height of such steps, including handrails,
shall not exceed a height of sixty six inches (66") above the finished ground
level.
ILLUSTRATION 6A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.png]
See subsection
10-5-9D of this title. Special location restrictions for accessory structures
with neither a width nor depth exceeding ten feet (10') nor a height exceeding
ten feet (10').
ILLUSTRATION 7
MEAN HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS IN EXCESS OF 34 FEET IN HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.png]
Note: The above sketches are examples to be utilized in determining the "mean
height" of a structure. "Mean height" is to be utilized only to determine
whether or not an automatic fire suppression system must be utilized in a
residence in accordance with subsection 10-5-4B of this title. The overall
height of a structure must comply with the height regulations as specified in
subsection 10-5-5A of this title.
ILLUSTRATION 8
DAYLIGHT PLANE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.png]
A = Side yard setback
B = A+12'
Note: Eaves are allowed to penetrate the daylight plane.
ILLUSTRATION 9
DAYLIGHT PLANE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.png]
ILLUSTRATION 10
DAYLIGHT PLANE - PERMITTED ENCROACHMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.png]
*   No extension through the daylight plane is permitted if the total length at
the point of intersection with the daylight plane is more than twenty feet
(20').
ILLUSTRATION 11
DAYLIGHT PLANE - PERMITTED ENCROACHMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.png]
Combined width of all dormers through the daylight plane cannot exceed twenty
feet (20').
ILLUSTRATION 11a
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.png]
ILLUSTRATION 12
COVERED OUTDOOR PORCHES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58.png]
ILLUSTRATION 13
GROSS FLOOR AREA - EXCESS CEILING HEIGHT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60.png]
See subsection
10-5-6B5 of this title.
 
Type A Spaces: No addition to gross floor area calculation is required.
               The gross floor area of the space indicated must be increased by
Type B Spaces: ten percent (10%) for each foot, or fraction thereof, that
               dimension Y exceeds ten feet (10').
 
ILLUSTRATION 14A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-62.png]
ILLUSTRATION 14B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-64.png]
ILLUSTRATION 14C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-66.png]
ILLUSTRATION 14D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-68.png]
ILLUSTRATION 14E
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-70.png]
ILLUSTRATION 15A-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-72.png]
ILLUSTRATION 15A-2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-74.png]
ILLUSTRATION 15A-3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-76.png]
ILLUSTRATION 15B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.png]
ILLUSTRATION 16
Lake Bluff Open Lands Association
P.O. Box 449
Lake Bluff, Illinois 60044
The ravines of Lake Bluff are essential to the ambiance of our unique village.
The golden glow of sugar maples in the fall, which are indicative of
presettlement vegetation, and the showy snow-white trillium which blanket the
slopes with other spring ephemerals before the trees leaf out, give us a very
special, natural setting, which we all treasure.
This is our special heritage, but as the density of Lake Bluff increases, it is
crucial for the survival of our ravines that we are aware of the things that
will enhance them as well as practices that will cause their destruction.
Ravine slopes are fragile deposits left from the ice age, of moraine glacial
"till" or gravel, laid on heavy clay. Because of this, they erode easily,
especially if ground vegetation is compacted or destroyed by being walked on,
or covered with layers of leaves dumped from adjacent lawns.
The drainage from the impervious surfaces of our streets, sidewalks, houses and
garages gravitates into the ravine system and on into Lake Michigan. As
rainwater and sprinkler water pass through lawns near ravines, chemical
fertilizers, herbicides and insecticides used to grow grass are picked up and
passed on into the highly sensitive ravine ecosystem at great cost to its
plants, shrubs and wildlife.
The ravine understory of spring wildflowers is splendid, but fragile. If hybrid
garden species (exoticaliens) are planted in landscapes at the edge of the
ravine or on the slopes, they "escape", spread and crowd out wildflowers and
ground cover. These lovely native plants are more shade tolerant, easy to
maintain (need no watering or weeding) and are appropriate to the area.
The following are native wildflowers, shrubs, intermediate and shade trees that
thrive in the ravinescape. They love that habitat and will love you if you
enhance your ravine property with their natural beauty.
Some ravine homeowners' responsibilities are to plant native material,
fertilize organically (no insecticides or herbicides) and mulch, do not dump
(leaves and grass clippings).
NATIVE WILDFLOWERS
White trillium
Smooth solomans seal
False solomans seal
Eastern columbine
Bloodroot
Hepatica
Violets
Snake root
Merry bells
Jack-in-the-pulpit
Wild geranium
Shooting star
Wild blue phlox
May apple
Wild ginger
Dutchmans breeches
Rue anemone
Wood anemone
Bunch berry
Trout lily
Bell wort
FERNS
Maiden hair fern
Lady fern
Cinnamon fern*
Interrupted fern
Leatherwood fern
Toothed wood fern
Royal fern*
Ostrich fern
*Ferns need moist, humus, rich soil and some shade
NATIVE SHRUBS
Witch hazel
Hazelnut
Nanny berry
Black chokeberry
Grey dogwood
Shad blow (serviceberry)*
Wild plum
INTERMEDIATE TREES
Hop horn beam
Horn beam
Black cherry*
Pagoda dogwood*
Hawthorn*
SHADE TREES
Red oak
White oak*
White ash
Sugar maple
Red maple
White birch
White pine
Basswood (American linden)
*State trees of Illinois
FALL BLOOMING FLOWERS
New England aster
Smooth aster
New York aster
Woodland sunflower
Black-eyed Susan
Golden rods
ILLUSTRATION 17
FLOOR AREA ADJUSTMENT WALKOUT BASEMENTS ON RAVINE SLOPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-80.png]
ILLUSTRATION 18
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-82.png]
Covered outdoor open porches, per subsection 10-5-6B4 of this title, that
qualify for a 3.5 percent bonus.
ILLUSTRATION 19
For an underground structure constructed on or after January 1, 1950, the
following shall be included in the calculation of the gross floor area of the
lot:
The total area, in square feet of all of that portion of the underground
structure that extends three feet (3') or more from the preexisting or proposed
grade, whichever grade is more restrictive, to the finished first floor
elevation.
Calculation as follows:
 
Total floor area of basement and/or x Perimeter of basement and/or crawl space
crawl space                           (X)
                                      Total perimeter of foundation (Y)
 
Where (X) is the total length measured parallel to the perimeter of all those
portions of the exposed basement wall that is three feet (3') or more above the
preexisting or proposed grade, whichever grade is more restrictive, as measured
from the finished first floor elevation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.png]
ILLUSTRATION 20
For an underground structure constructed before January 1, 1950, the following
shall be included in the calculation of the gross floor area of the lot:
The total area, in square feet, of all of that portion of the underground
structure that extends five feet (5') or more from the preexisting or proposed
grade, whichever grade is more restrictive, to the finished first floor
elevation.
Calculation as follows:
 
Total floor area of basement and/or x Perimeter of basement and/or crawl space
crawl space                           (X)
                                      Total perimeter of foundation (Y)
 
Where (X) is the total length measured parallel to the perimeter of all those
portions of the exposed basement wall that is five feet (5') or more above the
preexisting or proposed grade, whichever grade is more restrictive, as measured
from the finished first floor elevation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-86.png]
ILLUSTRATION 21
HEIGHT OF FENCES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-88.png]
ILLUSTRATION 21A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-90.png]
(Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987; amd. Ord. 2011-17, 9-26-2011)
10-13-2: SIGN EXHIBITS:
AWNING SIGN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-92.png]
GROUND SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-94.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-96.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-98.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-100.png]
   Projecting signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-102.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-104.png]
   Roof Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-106.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-108.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-110.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-112.png]
(Ord. 87-38, 12-14-1987)
10-13-3: ZONING USE TABLE:
 
P = Permitted use S = Special use
 
               Zoning Districts
               Residential                      Commercial/Non-           Other
Use      SIC                                    Residential
Category Code* C- E- E- R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6 CBD O&R AP- L-1 L-2 S R   RIO
               E  1  2                                  1
                                Zoning Districts
                                Residential                  Commercial/Non-       Other
Use Category              SIC                                Residential
                          Code* C- E- E- R- R- R- R-4 R-5 R- CBD O&R AP- L- L- S R RIO
                                E  1  2  1  2  3          6          1   1  2
Aboveground fuel storage                                             S   S  S  S S
tanks1, 2
Accessory dwelling              S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S
units16
Adult entertainment                                                         S
establishments1, 2
Advertising services      731                                P           P
Airport2, 6                     S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
Apparel and accessory     56                                 P           P
stores
Arrangement of passenger  472                                P           P
transportation
Assembly of goods                                                        P  P
Auto and home supply
stores without service    553                                P           P
bays
Automotive, aircraft, and                                            P
marine detail shops
Automotive, aircraft and                                             P
marine upholstery shops
Automotive/aircraft/                                                 P
marine accessory stores
Automotive repair         753                                            S
Barbershops               7241                               P           P
Beauty shops              7231                               P           P
Bookstores                5942                               P           P
Bowling center            7933                               S           S
Breweries and brewpubs18  2082                               S           S
Building equipment                                                             P
Building material                                                              P
Building mounted wind                                                S   S  S      S
energy systems2
Building/structure for                                                         P   P
public agency15
Building/structure for          S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S P
railroad uses2, 6
Buildings for public            S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S S
utilities2, 6
Business and secretarial  8244                               P           P
schools
Camera and photographic   5946                               P           P
supply stores
Carpet and upholstery     7217                                           S
cleaning
Cellular, digital,
paging, or other antenna                                     S           S
or dish installation or
facility
Child daycare services    8351                               S                     S
Churches and houses of          S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S P
worship2
Club2                           S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
Coal yards                                                                     P
Commercial printing not   2759                                           P
elsewhere classified
Community residences1           S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S
Computer and data         737                                P   P       P  P
processing services
Conference center2, 6           S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
Contracting equipment                                                          P
yards
Convalescent home and           S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
home for the aged2, 6
Credit reporting and      732                                P           P
collection
Dance schools, studios,   791                                S           S
and halls
Data processing schools   8243                               P           P
Depository institutions
with drive-in facilities                                     S           S
or drive-up auto teller
machines
Depository institutions
without drive-in or
drive-through facilities, 60                                 P           P
or drive-up auto teller
machines
Dog daycare, boarding,                                                   S
grooming, and training
Drinking places accessory
to permitted eating place 5813                               S           S
s18
Drive-in or drive-through
facilities accessory to                                      S           S
any retail trade facility
listed as a permitted use
Drive-in or drive-through
facilities accessory to                                      S           S
any service use listed as
a permitted use
Drugstores                591                                P           P
Eating places without
drive-in or drive-through 5812                               S           S
facilitie s18
Electrical repair shops   762                                P           P
Engineering and           87                                 P           P
management services
Fabrication of goods                                                     P  P
Farming operations3, 4          P  P
First, second, third
floor residential uses,
including, without                                           P
limitation, townhomes,
apartments, and
condominiums5
Floor covering stores     5713                                           P
Florists                  5992                               P           P
Food stores               54                                 P           P
Freestanding automatic                                       S           P       P
teller machines
Furniture and home        57                                 P           P
furnishings stores
Garment pressing, and     7212                               P           P
cleaners' agents
Gasoline service stations 5541                               S           S
General merchandise       53                                 P           P
stores
General offices, not                                         P   P       P  P
elsewhere classified
Gift, novelty, and        5947                               P           P
souvenir shops
Hardware stores           525                                P           P
Health and allied         809                                P           P
services
Hobby, toy, and game      5945                               P           P
shops
Holding and other         67                                 P   P       P  P
investment offices
Hospital or clinic2, 6          S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
Hotel2, 6                       S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
Individual and family     832                                P   P       P  P
social services
Insurance agents,         64                                 P   P       P  P
brokers, and service
Insurance carriers        63                                 P   P       P  P
Jewelry stores            5944                               P           P
Job training and related  833                                P   P       P  P
services
Legal services            811                                P   P       P  P
Libraries                                                                          P
Light industrial                                                         P  P
manufacturing
Linen supply              7213                                           P
Liquor stores             5921                                           S
Luggage and leather goods 5948                               P           P
stores
Lumberyards                                                                    P
Mailing, reproduction,    733                                P           P
stenographic services
Maintenance yards or
operating equipment yards                                                      P
for public agencies or
utilities
Manufacturing of small                                                   P  P
electric generators
Manufacturing of small                                                   P  P
electric motors
Medical and dental        807                                P   P       P  P
laboratories6
Medical cannabis                                                         S
dispensary
Membership sports and     7997                               S           S
recreation clubs
Miscellaneous business    738                                P           P
services
Miscellaneous
transportation and public                                    S
utilities, not elsewhere
classified
Mortuary uses2                                                              S
Motion picture            782                                P           P
distribution and services
Motion picture production 781                                P           P
and services
Motion picture theaters,  783                                S           S
excluding drive-ins
Motorcycle service and    7699                                           S
repair facility
Municipal buildings or                                                             P
areas
Museums and art galleries 841                                P           P         P
New aircraft dealership                                              P
New automobiles           5511                                       P   S  S
dealership2
New boats and personal                                               P
watercraft dealership
New motorcycles                                                      P
dealership
New recreational vehicles                                            P
dealership
New snowmobiles                                                      P
dealership
New trucks and vans                                                  P
dealership
Nondepository             61                                 P           P
institutions
Offices6                                                     P   P       P  P
Offices and clinics of    802                                P   P       P  P
dentists6
Offices and clinics of    801                                P   P       P  P
medical doctors6
Offices of osteopathic    803                                P   P       P  P
physicians6
Offices of other health   804                                P   P       P  P
practitioners6
Optical goods stores      5995                               P           P
Packing of goods                                                         P  P
Paint, glass and          523                                P           P
wallpaper stores
Personal wireless service
antenna facilities and          S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S S
equipment1, 2
Personnel supply services 736                                P           P
Photographic studios,     7221                               P           P
portrait
Physical fitness facility
10,000 square feet or     7991                               S           S
greater
Physical fitness facility
2,000 to 9,999 square     7991                               S           P
feet or greater
Physical fitness facility
less than 2,000 square                                       P           P
feet
Planned commercial                                                       S  S
developments
Planned mixed-use                                 S14 S14    S
developments
Planned residential             S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S
developments (PRDs)17
Private sales10                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P
Processing of goods                                                      P  P
Radio and television      7622                                           P
repair shops
Railroad passenger                                                               P
stations
Real estate               65                                 P   P       P  P
Recreation and leisure
facilities (including,
without limitation,
beaches, parks, open                                                               P
space, playgrounds, golf
courses, community and
recreation centers)
Research laboratories6                                           P       P  P
Residential condominium                               S
Retail commercial                                                           S
operations2
Retail nurseries and
garden stores without     526                                P              P
open yards
Sand and gravel yards                                                          P
Schools2, 6                     S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S P
Second floor residential
apartments or                                                P
condominiums
Security and commodity    62                                 P              P
brokers
Services to buildings     734                                P              P
services
Sewing, needlework and    5949                               P              P
piece goods
Shoe repair shops and     7251                               P
shoeshine parlors
Short-term rental               P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P  P
Single-family dwelling          P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P
Solar energy systems:
   Building integrated       P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P  P   P   P   P  P  P P P
   Building mounted12, 13    P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P  P   P   P   P  P  P P P
   Ground mounted13          S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S S
   Self-contained            P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P  P   P   P   P  P  P P P
Sporting goods and        5941                               P           P
bicycle shops
Stand alone and
underground parking                                          S           S
facilities or lots,
public or private
Stationery stores         5943                               P           P
Stone, marble and granite                                                      P
grinding and cutting
Storage of goods (wholly                                                 P  P
enclosed)
Subterranean single-            S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S
family garages
Swimming pools for
organizations, clubs, and       S  S  S  S  S  S  S   S   S  S   S   S   S  S  S S
multiple-family
dwellings2, 6
Tax return preparation    7291                               P   P       P  P
services
Temporary buildings and
uses necessary for
development and                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P   P   P
construction purposes for
a period not to exceed
one year3, 4
Third floor residential
apartments or                                                P
condominiums
United States Postal      4311                               S
Service
Used aircraft dealerships                                            P
Used automobiles                                                     P   S  S
dealerships2
Used boats and personal                                              P
watercraft dealerships
Used merchandise stores   593                                P           P
Used motorcycles                                                     P
dealerships
Used recreational                                                    P
vehicles dealerships
Used snowmobiles                                                     P
dealerships
Used trucks and vans                                                 P
dealerships
Vehicle body shops2                                                  P   S  S
Vehicle muffler shops2                                               P   S  S
Vehicle oil change                                                   P   S  S
facilities2
Vehicle painting                                                     P   S  S
facilities2
Vehicle radio/stereo,
cellular telephone and                                               P
communications stores
Vehicle service and                                                  P   S  S
repair centers2
Vehicle service stations,
including fuel and                                                   P
minimart services
Vehicle tire, battery,                                               P
accessory stores
Vehicle washing                                                      P
facilities
Veterinary services for   742                                S           S
animal specialties
Videotape rental          784                                P           P
Watch, clock, jewelry     764                                P           P
repair services
 
* In interpreting the corresponding "SIC" numbers in this zoning use table,
reference should be made to the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual"
(1987), published by the Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of
the President of the United States, available from the Superintendent of
Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington D.C. as amended, a copy
of which is on file at the Village Hall. The inclusion, if any, of Standard
Industrial Classification reference numbers (SIC numbers) is for illustrative
purposes only and shall be used solely as a tool by the building commissioner
to interpret what types of uses may fall within an enumerated use category. A
specific use may fall within a use category or be interpreted as substantially
similar to a use category despite being classified within a different SIC major
group, industry group, or industry code.
Notes:
   1.   These special uses in all zoning districts are subject to the
conditions in Chapter 4 of this title.
   2.   These uses in the L-2 District are subject to the conditions in section
10-7B-3 of this title.
   3.   These uses in the C-E District are subject to the conditions in
subsection
10-5A-1B of this title.
   4.   These uses in the E-1 District are subject to the conditions in
subsection
10-5B-1B of this title.
   5.   These uses in the CBD District are subject to the conditions in
subsection
10-6A-1B of this title.
   6.   These uses in the O&R District are subject to the restrictions in
subsection
10-6B-2B of this title.
   7.   Reserved.
   8.   Reserved.
   9.   Reserved.
   10.   These uses in all permitted districts are subject to the restrictions
in section
10-5-14 of this title.
   11.   Please refer to Note 1.
   12.   Please refer to Note 1.
   13.   Please refer to Note 1.
   14.   A lot in the B Residence District (R-4 District) or a lot in the C
Residence District (R-5 District) may be used as part of a planned mixed-use
development pursuant to a special use permit only if: a) the lot is adjacent to
a lot located in the Central Business District (CBD) and b) the lot is part of
a development, which development is wholly or partially in the CBD.
   15.   If a property qualifies as a "building/structure for public agency"
and as "building for public utilities", it shall be deemed to be a "building/
structure for public agency" and a permitted use in the RIO District.
   16.   Accessory dwelling units are subject to the provisions of Section
10-5-15 of this Title.
   17.   Planned residential developments (PRDs) can only be located in certain
areas of the Village identified in Illustration
10-17-2.A.
   18.   These special uses in the CBD District are subject to the conditions
in Section
10-6A-13 of this title.
(Ord. 2010-10, 5-24-2010; amd. Ord. 2010-17, 8-23-2010; Ord. 2010-24, 12-13-
2010; Ord. 2011-9, 5-23-2011; Ord. 2011-17, 9-26-2011; Ord. 2011-21, 10-24-
2011; Ord. 2012-1, 1-23-2012; Ord. 2012-2, 2-27-2012; Ord. 2012-3, 2-27-2012;
Ord. 2012-21, 8-27-2012; Ord. 2012-22, 8-27-2012; Ord. 2013-3, 1-28-2013; Ord.
2013-7, 4-8-2013; Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013; Ord. 2014-11, 5-12-2014; Ord. 2014-
16, 6-23-2014; Ord. 2015-17, 10-26-2015; Ord. 2016-2, 2-22-2016; Ord. 2016-13,
5-9-2016; Ord. 2016-23, 9-12-2016; Ord. 2017-9, 5-22-2017; Ord. 2018-2, 1-22-
2018; Ord. 2018-5, 4-23-2018; Ord. 2018-12, 7-23-2018, Ord. 2018-17, 9-10-2018;
Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019; Ord. 2019-13, 4-22-2019; Ord. 2019-24, 10-14-2019; Ord.
2020-3, 3-9-2020; Ord. 2020-22, 12- 14-2020; Ord. 2021-4, 3-8-2021; Ord. 2022-
2, 1-10-2022; Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022; Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022; Ord. 2023-1,
1-10-2023; Ord. 2023-22, 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 14
PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS (PCDs)
SECTION:
10-14-1: General Provisions
10-14-2: Procedure
10-14-3: Standards And Conditions
10-14-4: Authority To Modify Regulations
10-14-5: Adjustments And Amendments To Approved Final Plan
10-14-6: Application Requirements
10-14-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
A.   Authority: The Board of Trustees may grant special use permits pursuant to
this chapter and section
10-2C-3 of this title to authorize the development of planned commercial
developments ("PCDs") in the districts where PCDs are listed as a special use
in the Village's zoning use table in section
10-13-3 of this title.
B.   Purpose: PCDs are a distinct category of special use. Within a PCD, the
traditional use, bulk, space, and yard regulations may be relaxed if they
impose unnecessary rigidities on the proposed development or redevelopment of a
parcel of land that requires an individual, planned approach. Through the
flexibility of a PCD, the village seeks to achieve the following specific
objectives as appropriate for a particular proposed development, among others
that will be in the best interests of the village:
1.   Stimulating creative approaches to commercial development of land;
2.   Providing more efficient use of land;
3.   Preserving natural features and providing open space areas and recreation
areas in excess of those required under standard zoning regulations;
4.   Developing and implementing new approaches to the living environment
through variety in type, design and layout of buildings, transportation
systems, and public facilities;
5.   Unifying buildings and structures through design;
6.   Promoting long term planning to allow harmonious and compatible land uses
or combination of uses with surrounding areas;
7.   Promoting environmentally sound development practices;
8.   Facilitating development in harmony with the village's comprehensive plan;
and
9.   Promoting the public health, safety, and welfare.
C.   Parties Entitled To Seek PCD Approval: An application for a special permit
to permit a PCD may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a binding
contractual interest in, the subject property.
D.   Size Of Property: The provisions of this chapter apply to any project that
includes four (4) acres or more of total land area. (Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013;
amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-14-2: PROCEDURE:
A.   Development Concept Plan:
1.   Purpose: The development concept plan provides an applicant the
opportunity to submit a plan showing the basic scope, character, and nature of
the entire proposed PCD without incurring undue initial costs. The initial
required public hearing is based on the development concept plan, thus
permitting public consideration of the proposal at the earliest possible stage.
Once approved, the development concept plan binds both the applicant and the
village to the following basic elements of development:
a.   Categories of uses to be permitted;
b.   General location of land uses;
c.   Overall maximum intensity of uses;
d.   The general architectural style of the proposed development;
e.   General location and extent of public and private open space including
pedestrian and recreational amenities;
f.   General location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems;
g.   Preliminary staging of development;
h.   General nature, scope, and extent of public dedications, improvements, or
contributions to be provided by the applicant; and
i.   Other elements as may be included in the approved development concept
plan.
2.   Application: An application for approval of a development concept plan
shall be filed in accordance with the requirements of section
10-14-6 of this chapter.
3.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be set, noticed, and conducted by
the PCZBA in accordance with subsection 10-2C-10 of this title.
4.   Action By PCZBA: Within sixty (60) days after the conclusion of the public
hearing, the PCZBA shall transmit to the board of trustees its recommendation
that the development concept plan either be approved, be approved subject to
modifications, or not be approved. The failure of the PCZBA to forward its
recommendation within such sixty (60) days after completion of the public
hearing, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed
a recommendation for the approval of the development concept plan as submitted.
5.   Optional Submittal To The Architectural Board Of Review: After the
conclusion of the public hearing by the PCZBA concerning the development
concept plan, the applicant may request that the architectural board of review
conduct an informal workshop meeting pursuant to public notice for the purpose
of providing comments on the development concept plan, which meeting shall take
place prior to the consideration of the development concept plan by the village
board.
6.   Action By Board Of Trustees: Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of
the recommendation of the PCZBA, or its failure to act, as provided in
subsection A4 of this section, the board of trustees shall consider the
recommendation of the PCZBA and then either shall deny the application for
approval of the development concept plan, shall refer it back to the PCZBA for
further consideration of specified matters, or, by ordinance duly adopted,
shall approve the development concept plan, with or without modifications and
conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of such approval;
provided, however, that every such ordinance shall be expressly conditioned
upon approval of a special use permit and final PCD in accordance with
subsection C of this section, and upon the applicant's compliance with all
provisions of this code and the ordinance granting the special use permit.
7.   Effect Of Development Concept Plan Approval: Unless the applicant shall
fail to meet time schedules for filing a final plan or shall fail to proceed
with development in accordance with the plans as approved or shall in any other
manner fail to comply with any condition of this code or any approval granted
pursuant to it, the village shall not, without the consent of the applicant,
take any action to modify, revoke, or otherwise impair an approved development
concept plan with respect to the elements of development set forth in
subsection A1 of this section pending the application for approval of a final
plan. In submitting such plans, the applicant shall be bound by the approved
development concept plan with respect to each such element.
B.   Optional Submission Of A Final Plan: The applicant may submit a final plan
for the proposed PCD pursuant to the requirements of subsection C of this
section simultaneously with the submission of the development concept plan. In
that case, the applicant shall comply with all provisions of this code
applicable to submission of the development concept plan and to submission of
the final plan. The elements of both the development concept plan and the final
plan may be combined into a single set of plans. The PCZBA, ABR, and the board
of trustees shall consider such plans simultaneously and shall grant or deny
final plan approval in accordance with the provisions of subsections A, B, and
C of this section.
C.   Final Plan:
1.   Purpose: The final plan is intended to particularize, refine, and
implement the development concept plan and to serve as a complete, thorough,
and permanent public record of the planned commercial development and the
manner in which it is to be developed.
2.   Application: After approval of the development concept plan, the applicant
shall file an application for final plan approval in accordance with the
requirements of section
10-14-6 of this chapter within one year after the date of such approval or in
stages as approved in the development concept plan. The application shall
refine, implement, and be in substantial conformity with the approved
development concept plan.
3.   Public Hearing: A public hearing to consider the final plan shall be set,
noticed, and conducted by the PCZBA in accordance with subsection 10-2C-10 of
this title.
4.   Coordination With Subdivision Ordinance: When a subdivision of land
subject to the village's subdivision ordinance is proposed or required in
connection with a PCD, review of the subdivision, including, without
limitation, submittal and approval of plats of subdivision, shall proceed
concurrently with review of the PCD and be completed simultaneously with review
of and action on the final plan during the PCD process, and no further public
process shall be required for the PCD to obtain subdivision approval.
5.   Action By PCZBA:
a.   Evaluation: Within sixty (60) days after the filing of an application for
approval of a final plan, the PCZBA shall, with such aid and advice of the
village staff and consultants as may be appropriate, review and act on the
plan. Such review shall consider:
(1)   Whether the final plan is in substantial conformity with the approved
development concept plan; and
(2)   The merit or lack of merit of any departure of the final plan from
substantial conformity with the approved development concept plan; and
(3)   Whether the final plan complies with any and all conditions imposed by
approval of the development concept plan; and
(4)   Whether the final plan complies with the provisions of this code and all
other applicable federal, state, and village codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
b.   Recommendation Of Approval Based On Substantial Conformity: If the PCZBA
finds substantial conformity between the final plan and the approved
development concept plan and further finds the final plan to be in all other
respects complete and in compliance with any and all conditions imposed by
approval of the development concept plan and with the provisions of this code
and all other applicable federal, state, and village codes, ordinances, and
regulations, it shall transmit the plan to the board of trustees with its
recommendation that the board of trustees, by ordinance duly adopted, approve
the final plan, with or without modifications and conditions to be accepted by
the applicant as a condition of such approval, and shall grant a special use
permit authorizing the final plan of the proposed PCD and such additional
approvals as may be necessary to permit development of the PCD as approved.
c.   Recommendation Of Approval Without Substantial Conformity: If the PCZBA
finds that the final plan lacks substantial conformity to the development
concept plan but merits approval notwithstanding such lack of conformity and
otherwise conforms to the requirements of this code, it shall transmit the plan
to the board of trustees with its recommendation that the board of trustees, by
ordinance duly adopted, approve the final plan, with or without modifications
and conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of such approval,
and shall grant a special use permit authorizing the final plan of the proposed
PCD and such additional approvals as may be necessary to permit development of
the PCD as approved.
d.   Recommendation Of Denial: If the PCZBA finds that the final plan is not in
substantial conformity with the approved development concept plan and does not
merit approval as a result of that nonconformity, or if the PCZBA requires
modifications to the final plan that are not accepted by the applicant, then
the PCZBA shall transmit the plan to the board of trustees together with its
recommendation that the final plan not be approved.
e.   Failure To Act: The failure of the PCZBA to act within such sixty (60)
days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed to
be a recommendation to the board of trustees to approve the final plan as
submitted.
6.   Action By Architectural Board Of Review: Within sixty (60) days after the
conclusion of the public hearing by the PCZBA concerning the final plan, the
Architectural Board of Review will conduct a public hearing for the purpose of
conducting a design review pursuant to section 10-2C-20 of this title
concerning the final plan. Within sixty (60) days after the conclusion of the
public hearing by the ABR, the ABR shall transmit to the Board of Trustees its
recommendation that the Final Plan design be approved, be approved subject to
modifications, or not be approved. The failure of the ABR to forward its
recommendation within such sixty (60) days after completion of the public
hearing, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed
a recommendation for the approval of the Final Plan design as submitted.
7.   Action By Board Of Trustees: Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of
the recommendation of the ABR, or its failure to act as provided in subsection
C6 of this section, the board of trustees shall proceed as follows:
a.   Approval Based On Substantial Conformity: If the PCZBA has recommended
approval of a final plan pursuant to subsection C5b of this section, the board
of trustees shall, unless it specifically rejects one or more of the findings
of the PCZBA on the basis of expressly stated reasons, approve the final plan
by a duly adopted ordinance; or
b.   Approval Without Substantial Conformity: In any case other than that
specified in subsection C7a of this section, the board of trustees may, if it
finds that the final plan merits approval and otherwise conforms to the
requirements of this title, approve the final plan by a duly adopted ordinance;
or
c.   Referral Back To PCZBA: In any case other than that specified in
subsection C7a of this section, the board of trustees may refer the final plan
back to the PCZBA for further consideration of specified matters; or
d.   Conditions On Final Plan Approval: The approval of any final plan may be
granted with or without modifications and conditions to be accepted by the
applicant as a condition of approval.
8.   Recording Of Final Plan: When a final plan is approved, the village
administrator shall cause the final plan and special use permit ordinance, or
the portions thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded with the Lake County
recorder.
9.   Limitation On Final Plan Approval: Construction shall commence in
accordance with the approved final plan within one year after the approval of
such plan, or within such time as may be established by the approved
development schedule. Failure to commence construction within such period
shall, unless an extension of time shall have been granted by the village
administrator, automatically render void the final plan approval and all
approvals of the planned commercial development and all permits based on such
approvals, and the village administrator shall, without further direction,
initiate an appropriate application to revoke the special use permit for all
portions of the planned commercial development that have not yet been
completed.
10.   Building And Other Permits: Except as provided in subsection C9 of this
section, appropriate officials of the village, after receiving notice from the
village administrator that the documents required for final plan approval have
been approved and upon proper application by the applicant, may issue building
and other permits to the applicant for the development, construction, and other
work in the area encompassed by the approved final plan; provided, however,
that no permit shall be issued unless the appropriate official is first
satisfied that the requirements of any codes or ordinances of the village, in
addition to this code, that are applicable to the permit sought, have been
satisfied. Building permits may, however, be withheld at the discretion of the
village administrator or the board of trustees at any time it is determined
that the development of the PCD is not undertaken in strict compliance with the
approved final plan. (Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-14-3: STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS:
A.   Special Use Permit Standards: No special use permit for a PCD shall be
recommended or granted pursuant to this section unless the applicant shall
establish that the proposed PCD will meet each of the standards made applicable
to special uses pursuant to subsection 10-2C-10.E of this title.
B.   General Design Standards: No special use permit for a PCD shall be
recommended or granted unless the applicant shall establish that the proposed
PCD will meet each of the following additional standards:
1.   Comprehensive Plan: The PCD shall not be inconsistent with the planning
policies, goals, objectives, and provisions of the village's comprehensive
plan.
2.   Public Welfare: The PCD shall be designed, located, and proposed to be
operated and maintained so that it will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property and will not substantially increase the danger of
fire or otherwise endanger the public health, safety and welfare.
3.   Impact On Other Property: The PCD shall not be unnecessarily injurious to
the use or enjoyment of surrounding properties for the purposes permitted
pursuant to the applicable zoning district, shall not prevent the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding properties for permitted
uses, shall not be inconsistent with the community character of the
neighborhood, shall not alter the essential character of the neighborhood, and
shall not substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood, or be incompatible with other property in the immediate vicinity.
The uses permitted in a PCD must be of a type and so located so as to exercise
no undue detrimental influence upon surrounding properties. The PCD must also
address compliance with the village's noise, lighting, and other performance
standards.
4.   Impact On Public Facilities And Resources: The PCD shall be designed so
that adequate utilities, road access, drainage, and other necessary facilities
will be provided to serve the PCD.
5.   Archaeological, Historical Or Cultural Impact: The PCD shall not
substantially and adversely affect a known archaeological, historical, or
cultural resource located on or off of the parcel proposed for development.
6.   Parking And Traffic: The PCD shall have or make adequate provision to
provide ingress and egress to the proposed use in a manner that minimizes
traffic congestion in the public streets, provides appropriate cross access to
adjacent properties and parking areas, and provides adequate access for
emergency vehicles. Adequate parking shall be provided for the uses permitted
in the PCD.
7.   Landscaping, Open Space, And Buffering: The PCD shall have comprehensive
landscaping, public open space, and other buffering features to protect uses
within the development and surrounding properties, including, without
limitation, sufficient buffering to minimize the visual impact of the PCD on
surrounding properties.
8.   Signage: Signage on the site of the PCD shall generally be in conformity
with the village's sign regulations, except as may otherwise be specifically
provided in the ordinance approving a PCD.
9.   Ownership/Control Area: The site of the PCD must be under ownership and/or
unified control of the applicant.
10.   Compliance With Subdivision Regulations And Plat Act: All PCDs, whether
or not they are by definition subject to the village's subdivision regulations
or the Illinois plat act, shall comply with all standards, regulations and
procedures of the village's subdivision regulations and the plat act except as
is expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, or as otherwise provided by
the board of trustees pursuant to the ordinance approving the PCD, or the
applicable sections of the village's subdivision regulations.
11.   Covenants And Restrictions To Be Enforceable By Village: All covenants,
deed restrictions, easements, and similar restrictions to be recorded in
connection with the PCD, if any, shall provide that they may not be modified,
removed, or released without the express consent of the board of trustees and
that they may be enforced by the village as well as by future landowners within
the PCD.
12.   Security And Site Control: The PCD shall include the plans necessary to
describe, establish, and maintain appropriate property and building security
and site control measures for the PCD and the property on which the PCD is
located. These plans shall also include measures to prevent adverse impacts on
neighboring properties.
13.   Integrated Design: A PCD shall be laid out and developed as a unit in
accordance with an integrated overall design. This design shall provide for
safe, efficient, convenient and harmonious grouping of structures, uses and
facilities, and for appropriate relation of space inside and outside buildings
to intended uses and structural features.
14.   Beneficial Common Open Space: Any common open space in the PCD shall be
integrated into the overall design. These open spaces shall have a direct
functional or visual relationship to the main building(s) and shall not be of
isolated or leftover character. The following would not be considered usable
common open space:
a.   Areas reserved for the exclusive use or benefit of an individual tenant or
owner.
b.   Dedicated streets, alleys and other public rights of way.
c.   Vehicular drives, parking, loading and storage areas.
d.   Irregular or unusable narrow strips of land.
15.   Functional And Mechanical Features: Storage areas, trash and garbage
retainers, machinery installations, service areas, truck loading areas, utility
buildings and structures, and similar accessory areas and structures shall be
accounted for in the design of the PCD and enclosed or made as unobtrusive as
possible. These features shall be subject to such setbacks, special planting or
other screening methods as shall reasonably be required to prevent their being
incongruous with the existing or contemplated environment and the surrounding
properties.
16.   Visual And Acoustical Privacy: The PCD shall provide reasonable visual
and acoustical privacy. Fences, insulations, walks, barriers and landscaping
shall be used as appropriate for the protection and aesthetic enhancement of
property and the privacy of its occupants, screening of objectionable view or
uses, and reduction of noises.
17.   Vehicle Drives, Parking And Circulation: Principal vehicular access shall
be from dedicated public streets, and access points shall be designed to
encourage smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum
hazards to vehicular or pedestrian traffic. With respect to vehicular and
pedestrian circulation, including walkways, interior drives and parking,
special attention shall be given to location and number of access points to the
public streets, width of interior drives and access points, general interior
circulation, separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, adequate provision
for service by emergency vehicles, sharing of parking between uses in the PCD,
and arrangement of parking areas that are safe and convenient, and insofar as
feasible, do not detract from the design of proposed buildings and structures
and the neighboring properties. Landscaping shall be provided to screen parking
areas from neighboring properties.
18.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Access And Circulation: PCDs shall emphasize safe,
efficient, and comprehensive pedestrian friendly movement and shall further
emphasize bicycle access and circulation, including, without limitation,
providing connections to and from existing bike and walking paths so as to
ensure a continuous route without gaps or disconnections.
19.   Lighting: Lighting for the PCD shall preserve and enhance the "dark at
night" character of the village by: a) enabling individuals to view essential
detail to permit them to undertake their activities at night; b) facilitating
safety and security of persons and property; and c) curtailing the degradation
of the nighttime visual environment.
20.   Surface Water Drainage: Special attention shall be given to proper site
surface drainage so that removal of surface waters will not adversely affect
neighboring properties or the public storm drainage system. Surface water in
all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so that it will not obstruct
the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
21.   Zoning District Standards: If the zoning district regulations for the
zoning district where the PCD is located impose additional standards to be met
by any PCD in that district beyond those in this chapter, a special permit for
such development shall not be recommended or granted unless the applicant shall
establish compliance with such special standards.
22.   Compliance With Tree Regulations: The PCD must comply with all standards,
regulations and procedures of the village's tree regulations, as provided in
chapter 11 of this title.
23.   Compliance With Watershed Development Ordinance: The PCD must comply with
all standards, regulations, and procedures of the village's watershed
development ordinance, ordinance 2001-16, as it may be amended from time to
time.
24.   Water And Sewer Service: The PCD must comply with all municipal code
requirements concerning the public water supply and sanitary sewer service
necessary to serve the PCD.
C.   Conditions: The approval of a final plan may be conditioned on such
matters as the board of trustees may find necessary to prevent or minimize any
possible adverse effects of the proposed PCD, or to ensure its compatibility
with surrounding uses and development and its consistency with the general
purposes, goals, and objectives of this code, the village's subdivision code,
and the village's comprehensive plan. Such conditions shall be expressly set
forth in the ordinance or resolution granting the approval in question.
Violation of any such condition or limitation shall be a violation of this code
and shall constitute grounds for revocation of all approvals granted for the
planned commercial development. (Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-38,
12-12-2022)
10-14-4: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY REGULATIONS:
A.   Authority: Subject to the standards and limitations in this section, the
board of trustees, as part of an approval of any PCD, may modify or waive any
provision of this code or of the village's subdivision ordinance as they apply
to an approved PCD.
B.   Standards: No such modification or waiver may be approved unless the board
of trustees shall find that the proposed PCD:
1.   Will achieve the purposes for which PCD may be approved pursuant to
section
10-14-1 of this chapter;
2.   Will not violate the general purposes, goals, and objectives of this code
and the village's comprehensive plan;
3.   Will result in a development providing compensating amenities to the
village. "Compensating amenities" means features not otherwise required to
achieve compliance with the standards of this code or other applicable village
codes and ordinances, including, without limitation, such things as public art;
plazas; pedestrian walkways; natural habitats; increased landscaping; buffering
or screening; enhanced streetscape; enhanced pedestrian and transit supportive
design; underground parking; and similar features. Compensating amenities must
be proposed as part of a PCD application, and all compensating amenities,
whether public or private, must be developed and constructed at the applicant's
expense; and
4.   Subject to the standards set forth in this subsection, a compensating
amenity may be in the form of a cash contribution. If the board of trustees
approves a cash contribution in lieu of a compensating amenity, then the
contribution must be made by the applicant to the village prior to the issuance
by the village of any permit authorizing construction related to the project.
The contribution will be designated by the village specifically as funding for
a compensating amenity of the type described in subsection B3 of this section.
The board of trustees may approve a cash contribution only if: a) the project
site is inadequate for any physical on site compensating amenity as a result of
its size, shape, or other topographic feature, b) there is no immediate need
for a compensating amenity on public property abutting or adjacent to the
project site, and c) there is a compelling and appropriate compensating
amenity, as determined by the board of trustees, for which a cash contribution
can be designated.
C.   Other Limitations: In granting any PCD approval pursuant to this chapter,
the board of trustees shall in no event:
1.   Make less stringent any performance standard relating to noise, vibration,
smoke and particulate matter, odors, toxic and noxious matter, radiation
hazards, fire and explosive hazards, or heat or glare, that is applicable in
the district in which the development is to be located or applicable to the
particular use by reason of the regulations applicable in any district in which
it might be located; or
2.   Reduce the minimum total lot area requirement by more than fifty percent
(50%). This limitation does not apply to any minimum lot area per unit
requirement.
D.   Regulation During And After Completion Of Development: After a final plan
has been approved, that approved plan will constitute the regulations
applicable to the subject property, rather than any conflicting provision of
this title. No use or development not authorized by the approved plan will be
permitted within the planned commercial development. (Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013)
10-14-5: ADJUSTMENTS AND AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED FINAL PLAN:
A.   Minor Adjustments: During the development of a PCD, the village
administrator in consultation with the village engineer may authorize minor
adjustments to an approved final plan only as described in subsection A1 of
this section and only when the minor adjustments appear necessary to, and
consistent with, proper completion of the development as contemplated by the
approval ordinance.
1.   Types Of Minor Adjustments: Such minor adjustments shall be limited to the
following:
a.   Altering the location of any one structure or any part thereof, or any
group of structures, by not more than twenty feet (20') or twenty five percent
(25%) of the distance shown on the approved final plan between such structure
or structures and any other structure or any vehicular circulation element or
any boundary of the planned commercial development, whichever is less; and
b.   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more than twenty
feet (20') or twenty five percent (25%) of the distance shown on the approved
final plan between such circulation element and any structure, whichever is
less; and
c.   Altering the location of any open space by not more than twenty feet (20')
or twenty five percent (25%) of the distance shown on the approved final plan;
and
d.   Altering any final grade by not more than twenty percent (20%) of the
originally planned grade; and
e.   Altering the location or type of landscaping elements, provided that such
minor adjustment will not result in the reduction of required landscaping or be
inconsistent with the nature and type of landscaping required by the approved
landscape plan.
2.   Requirements For Minor Adjustments: Such minor adjustments shall be
consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the final plan, as
approved, shall be the minimum necessary to overcome the particular difficulty,
and shall not be approved if they would result in a violation of any standard
or requirement of this code.
B.   Major Adjustments: Any adjustment to an approved final plan not authorized
by subsection A of this section shall be considered to be a major adjustment
and shall be granted only on application to, and approval by, the board of
trustees after a public hearing conducted by the PCZBA. If the board of
trustees determines that a major adjustment is not in substantial conformity
with the final plan as approved, then the board of trustees shall refer the
request to the PCZBA for further hearing and review as provided in subsection
10-14-2C of this chapter.
C.   Amendments To Approved Final Plan After Completion Of Development: After
completion of a PCD, an approved final plan may be amended, varied, or altered
in the same manner and subject to the same limitations, as provided for major
adjustments in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013)
10-14-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Minimum Data Requirements For All Applications: Every application
submitted pursuant to this chapter shall contain at least the following
information:
1.   The owner's name and address and the owner's signed consent to the filing
of the application. Full disclosure of the ownership of all legal and equitable
interests in the lot is required.
2.   The lot owner's name and address, if different from the owner, and his or
her interest in the lot.
3.   The names and addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising
the owner with respect to the application.
4.   The name and address and the nature and extent of any economic or family
interest of any officer or employee of the village in the owner, the lot owner,
or lot.
5.   The addresses and legal description of the lot.
6.   Descriptions and graphic representations of the proposal for which
approval is being sought and of the existing zoning classification, use, and
development of the lot and the adjacent area for at least two hundred fifty
feet (250') in all directions from the lot. The scope and detail of such
description shall be appropriate to the subject matter of the application, with
special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the
approval being sought in the application.
B.   Applications For Development Concept Plan Approval: Every application for
development concept plan approval shall, in addition to the data and
information required pursuant to subsection A of this section, provide at least
ten (10) sets of plans and documents of the following:
1.   Development Concept Plan: A plan showing the basic scope, character, and
nature of the entire PCD including the following information:
a.   Character: Explanation of the character of the PCD and the manner in which
it has been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of these regulations.
b.   Ownership: Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within
the project, including present tract designation according to official records
in offices of the county recorder.
c.   Names: The names and addresses of the persons to whom the notice of the
hearing to be held by the planning agency are to be sent shall be provided by
the subdivider by affidavit and shall include all owners of lots situated
within three hundred feet (300') of the lot for which plat approval is sought.
d.   Nature And Type Of Uses: Information on the nature and type of uses in the
PCD.
e.   Service Facilities: Information on all service facilities and off street
parking facilities in the PCD.
f.   Preliminary Architectural Drawings: Preliminary architectural drawings for
all primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development, and the height, number,
location, and design of the building(s) in the PCD.
g.   Conceptual Site Plan: A conceptual site plan of the proposed PCD,
including building locations, property lines, setbacks, streets, circulation
systems for pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles, open space, landscaped areas,
and recreational facilities.
h.   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required by the
PCZBA.
C.   Applications For Final Plan Approval: Every application filed pursuant to
this chapter shall, in addition to the data and information required in
subsection A of this section, provide the following information:
1.   Detailed Plan: A drawing of the PCD shall be prepared at a scale of not
less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show such
designations as proposed streets (public and private), all buildings and their
use, common open space, recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas and
other facilities to indicate the character of the proposed PCD. The submission
may be composed of one or more sheets and drawings and shall include:
a.   Boundary Lines: Bearings and distances.
b.   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
c.   Streets On And Adjacent To The Tract: Street name, right of way width,
existing or proposed centerline elevations, pavement type, walks, curbs,
gutters, culverts, etc.
d.   Utilities On And Adjacent To The Tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines and
streetlights; direction and distance to and size of nearest water mains and
sewers adjacent to the tract showing invert elevation of sewers.
e.   Ground Elevations On The Tract: For land that slopes less than one-half of
one percent (0.5%), show one foot (1') contours, show spot elevations at all
breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales and at selected points
not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all directions. For land that
slopes more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) show two foot (2') contours.
f.   Subsurface Conditions On The Tract, If Required By The Village Engineer:
Location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and
groundwater conditions; depth to groundwater unless test pits are dry at a
depth of five feet (5').
g.   Other Conditions On The Tract: Watercourses, floodplains, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, protected trees as designated in the village's tree
protection regulations at section
10-11-4 of this title, houses, barns, accessory buildings and other significant
features.
h.   Other Conditions On Adjacent Land: Approximate direction and gradient of
ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls; character and
location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other nearby land
uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent platted land; for the adjacent
platted land refer to subdivision plat by name, recording date and number and
show approximate percent built up, typical lot size and dwelling type.
i.   Zoning On And Adjacent To The Tract: Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
j.   Proposed Public Improvements: Highways or other major improvements planned
by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
k.   Open Space: All lots intended to be dedicated for public use or reserved
for the use of all lot owners with the purpose indicated.
l.   General Location, Purpose And Height: General location, purpose and
height, in feet and stories, of each building.
m.   Map Data: Name of development, north point and scale, date of preparation
and acreage of site.
n.   Water Facilities: The preliminary plat shall have depicted on its face all
lakes, ponds, detention sites, retention sites and dams. This includes existing
lakes, ponds, detention sites, retention sites and dams or proposed lakes,
ponds, detention sites, retention sites or dams. If the water facility is
proposed, the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by preliminary engineering
plans, including the depth, capacity and relation of the water facility to
proposed storm drain facilities.
o.   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required by the
PCZBA.
p.   Final Building Elevations And Floor Plans: Schematic drawings illustrating
the design and character of the building elevations, types of construction, and
floor plans for all proposed buildings and structures. The drawings shall also
include a schedule showing the number, type, and floor area for all uses or
combinations of uses, and the floor area for the entire proposed planned
development.
q.   Traffic Studies: Detailed information as required by the village
concerning traffic circulation within the PCD and the mitigation of traffic
impacts created by the PCD on surrounding village, county, and state roads.
r.   Watershed Development Ordinance: Information as required by the village to
demonstrate compliance with the village's watershed development ordinance.
2.   Final Plat: A final land use and zoning plat, suitable for recording with
the county recorder of deeds shall be prepared. The purpose of the land use and
zoning plat is to designate with particularity the land subdivided into
conventional lots as well as the division of other land not so treated into
common open areas and building areas. The final land use and zoning plat shall
include, but not be limited to:
a.   Legal Description Of Entire Area: An accurate legal description of the
entire area under immediate development within the PCD.
b.   Subdivision Plat: A subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same
form and meeting all the requirements of a normal subdivision plat.
c.   Legal Description Of Unsubdivided Use Area: An accurate legal description
of each separate unsubdivided use area, including common open space.
d.   Location Of All Buildings To Be Constructed: Designation of the exact
location of all buildings to be constructed, including minimum setbacks from
lot lines.
e.   Certificates, Seals And Signatures: Certificates, seals and signatures
required for the dedication of lands and recording the document.
f.   Tabulations On Separate Unsubdivided Use Area: Tabulations on separate
unsubdivided use area, if any, including land area and number of buildings.
g.   Water Facilities: The location of all lakes, ponds, detention sites,
retention sites and dams shall be depicted and accurately located on the final
plat.
3.   Public Open Space Documents: All common open space in the PCD that is to
be dedicated for the use of the public shall be either conveyed to a municipal
or public corporation, conveyed to a not for profit corporation or entity
established for the purpose of benefiting the owners of the PCD or retained by
the developer with legally binding guarantees, in a form approved by the
village attorney, that the common open space will be permanently preserved as
open area. All land conveyed to a not for profit corporation or like entity
shall be subject to the right of said corporation to impose a legally
enforceable lien for maintenance and improvement of the common open space.
4.   Public Facilities: The construction of all public facilities and
improvements made necessary as a result of the PCD shall either be completed
prior to final plat approval, or be guaranteed by a security deposit.
5.   Security Deposit: The satisfactory installation of the public facilities
and improvements required to be constructed within the PCD shall be guaranteed
by a security deposit in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of
the estimated cost of public facility installations. The balance of the
security deposit shall not be returned after the completion of the public
facility installations unless a guarantee security deposit in an amount of ten
percent (10%) of the total cost of the required facilities is first delivered
to the village. Such guarantee security deposit shall be maintained for a
period of twenty four (24) months.
6.   Delinquent Taxes: A certificate shall be furnished from the proper
collector that all special assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any
part of the lot of the PCD have been paid.
7.   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the
use, maintenance and continued protection of the PCD.
8.   Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
a.   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area, density, use
and public facilities such as open space to be developed with each stage.
Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plat and through supporting
graphic material.
b.   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
c.   If different land use types are to be included within the PCD, the
schedule must include the mix of uses to be built in each stage.
9.   Traffic Mitigation:
a.   All new developments shall be required to provide a traffic study,
prepared by a qualified traffic engineer, to establish trips generated,
necessary road and other improvements, and other reasonably necessary
information relating to traffic impact of the development on village, county or
state roads.
b.   All developments shall be required to provide an employee traffic
mitigation plan. The plan will establish specific actions by the owner to limit
peak hour vehicular traffic generated by the development. These actions might
include staggered work hours, ridesharing, vanpools, rideshare or transit
promotion, transit stop or van service to rail stops, full service cafeteria,
or preferential parking plan.
10.   Lighting Plans: A final photometric/lighting plan for the proposed PCD
including technical descriptions and cut sheets for all lighting fixtures. Any
permitted accessory lighting fixtures shall be designed, arranged, and operated
so as to prevent glare and direct rays of light from being cast onto any
adjacent public or private property or street and so as not to produce
excessive sky reflected glare.
11.   Landscaping Plans: A final landscape plan depicting the location, size,
character, and composition of all trees, landscape materials and other
vegetation for the PCD.
12.   Facilities Plans: Final plans for:
a.   Roads including classification, width of right of way, width of pavement
and typical construction details.
b.   Sanitary sewer system.
c.   Storm drainage system.
d.   Water supply system.
D.   Modification Or Waiver Of Application Requirements: Upon written request
of the applicant, the village administrator may modify the requirements to
submit any plans or documents required pursuant to this section, provided that
no required submittals may be waived without the prior review and approval of
the village board. The applicant may, at its discretion, submit any or all of
the materials set forth in subsection C of this section during the development
concept plan stage so that the applicant may receive approval of any such
specified materials and elements of the required final plan at the development
concept plan stage. (Ord. 2013-12, 6-10-2013)
CHAPTER 15
PLANNED MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENTS (PMDs)
SECTION:
10-15-1: General Provisions
10-15-2: Procedure
10-15-3: Standards And Conditions
10-15-4: Authority To Modify Regulations
10-15-5: Minor Adjustments And Amendments To Approved Final Plan
10-15-6: Application Requirements
10-15-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
A.   Authority: The Board of Trustees may grant special use permits pursuant to
this chapter and subsection
10-2C-3 of this title to authorize the development of planned mixed-use
developments ("PMDs") in the districts where PMDs are listed as a special use
in section
10-13-3, "Zoning Use Table", of this title.
B.   Purpose: PMDs are a distinct category of special use. Within a PMD, the
traditional use, bulk, space, and yard regulations may be modified if they
impose unnecessary rigidities on the proposed development or redevelopment of a
parcel or parcels of land that require an individual, planned approach. Through
the flexibility of a PMD, the Village seeks to achieve the following specific
objectives as appropriate and applicable for a particular proposed development,
among others that will be in the best interests of the Village:
1.   Stimulating creative approaches to mixed use development of land;
2.   Providing more efficient use of land;
3.   Preserving natural features and providing open space areas and recreation
areas in excess of those required under standard zoning regulations;
4.   Developing and implementing new approaches to the living environment
through variety in type, design and layout of buildings, transportation
systems, and public facilities;
5.   Unifying buildings and structures through design;
6.   Promoting long term planning to allow harmonious and compatible land uses
or combination of uses with surrounding areas;
7.   Promoting environmentally sound development practices;
8.   Facilitating residential, commercial, and mixed-used development in
harmony with the Village's Comprehensive Plan;
9.   Enhancing the character and vitality of the Village's Central Business
District in harmony with adjacent residential neighborhoods; and
10.   Promoting the public health, safety, and welfare.
C.   Parties Entitled To Seek PMD Approval: An application for a special use
permit to permit a PMD may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a
binding contractual interest in, the subject property.
D.   Size Of Property: The provisions of this chapter apply to any project that
includes one-half (0.5) acre or more of total land area. (Ord. 2016-23, 9-12-
2016; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-15-2: PROCEDURE:
A.   Preliminary Meeting With The Joint Plan Commission And Zoning Board Of
Appeals: An applicant for a special use permit for a PMD is encouraged, but is
not required, to request to meet with the PCZBA prior to submitting a
Development Concept Plan pursuant to subsection B of this section to obtain
feedback from the PCZBA on its potential application for a special use permit
for a PMD. Such meeting shall occur at a public meeting of the PCZBA.
B.   Development Concept Plan:
1.   Purpose: The Development Concept Plan provides an applicant the
opportunity to submit a plan showing the basic scope, character, and nature of
the entire proposed PMD without incurring undue initial costs. The initial
required public hearing is based on the Development Concept Plan, thus
permitting public consideration of the proposal at the earliest possible stage.
Once approved, the Development Concept Plan binds the applicant to the
following basic elements of development:
a.   Categories of uses to be permitted;
b.   General location of land uses;
c.   Overall maximum intensity of uses;
d.   The general architectural style of the proposed development;
e.   If applicable, general location and extent of public and private open
space including pedestrian and recreational amenities;
f.   General location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems;
g.   Preliminary staging of development;
h.   If applicable, general nature, scope, and extent of public dedications,
improvements, or contributions to be provided by the applicant; and
i.   Other elements as may be included in the approved Development Concept
Plan.
2.   Application: An application for approval of a Development Concept Plan
shall be filed in accordance with the requirements of section
10-15-6 of this chapter.
3.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be set, noticed, and conducted by
the PCZBA in accordance with subsection 10-2C-10 of this title.
4.   Action By PCZBA: No later than the second regularly-scheduled and held
meeting of the PCZBA after the conclusion of the public hearing, the PCZBA
shall make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees that the Development
Concept Plan either be approved, be approved subject to modifications, or not
be approved. The failure of the PCZBA to make its recommendation by the second
regularly-scheduled and held meeting of the PCZBA after the conclusion of the
public hearing, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, shall be
deemed a decision to make no recommendation on the Development Concept Plan as
submitted.
5.   Optional Submittal To The Architectural Board Of Review: After the
conclusion of the public hearing by the PCZBA concerning the Development
Concept Plan, the applicant may request that the Architectural Board of Review
conduct an informal workshop meeting for the purpose of providing comments on
the Development Concept Plan, which meeting, if requested and held, shall take
place prior to the consideration of the Development Concept Plan by the Village
Board.
6.   Action By Board Of Trustees: Within sixty (60) days after the date of the
recommendation of the PCZBA, or its failure to act, as provided in subsection
B4 of this section, the Board of Trustees shall consider the recommendation of
the PCZBA, and then either shall deny the application for approval of the
Development Concept Plan, shall refer it back to the PCZBA for further
consideration of specified matters, or, by ordinance duly adopted, shall
approve the Development Concept Plan, with or without modifications and
conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of such approval;
provided, however, that every such ordinance shall be expressly conditioned
upon approval of a special use permit and Final Plan in accordance with
subsection C of this section, and upon the applicant's compliance with all
provisions of this Code and the ordinance granting the special use permit.
7.   Effect Of Development Concept Plan Approval: Unless the applicant shall
fail to meet time schedules for filing a Final Plan or shall fail to proceed
with development in accordance with the plans as approved or shall in any other
manner fail to comply with any condition of this Code or any approval granted
pursuant to it, the Village shall not, without the consent of the applicant,
take any action to modify, revoke, or otherwise impair an approved Development
Concept Plan with respect to the elements of development set forth in
subsection B1 of this section pending the application for approval of a Final
Plan. In submitting such plans, the applicant shall be bound by the approved
Development Concept Plan with respect to each such element.
C.   Final Plan:
1.   Purpose: The Final Plan is intended to particularize, refine, and
implement the Development Concept Plan and to serve as a complete, thorough,
and permanent public record of the planned mixed-use development and the manner
in which it is to be developed.
2.   Application: After approval of the Development Concept Plan, the applicant
shall file an application for Final Plan approval in accordance with the
requirements of section
10-15-6 of this chapter within one (1) year after the date of such approval or
in stages as approved in the Development Concept Plan. The application shall be
in substantial conformity with the approved Development Concept Plan. If a
completed application for Final Plan approval has not been properly filed
within one (1) year after the approval date of the Development Concept Plan,
the approval of the Development Concept Plan shall be deemed void.
3.   Public Hearing: A public hearing to consider the Final Plan shall be set,
noticed, and conducted by the PCZBA in accordance with subsection 10-2C-10 of
this title.
4.   Coordination With Subdivision Ordinance: When a subdivision of land
subject to the Village's subdivision ordinance is proposed or required in
connection with a PMD, review of the subdivision, including without limitation
submittal and approval of plats of subdivision, shall proceed concurrently with
review of the PMD and be completed simultaneously with review of and action on
the Final Plan during the PMD process, and no further public process shall be
required for the PMD to obtain subdivision approval.
5.   Action By PCZBA:
a.   Evaluation: Within sixty (60) days after the filing of an application for
approval of a Final Plan, the PCZBA shall, with such aid and advice of the
Village staff and consultants as may be appropriate, commence its public
hearing to review and make its recommendation on the plan. Such review shall
consider:
(1)   Whether the Final Plan is in substantial conformity with the approved
Development Concept Plan; and
(2)   The merit or lack of merit of any departure of the Final Plan from
substantial conformity with the approved Development Concept Plan; and
(3)   Whether the Final Plan complies with any and all conditions imposed by
approval of the Development Concept Plan; and
(4)   Whether the Final Plan complies with the provisions of this chapter and
all other applicable Federal, State, and Village codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
b.   Recommendation Of Approval Based On Substantial Conformity: If the PCZBA
finds substantial conformity between the Final Plan and the approved
Development Concept Plan and further finds the Final Plan to be in all other
respects complete and in compliance with any and all conditions imposed by
approval of the Development Concept Plan and with the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable Federal, State, and Village codes, ordinances,
and regulations, it shall transmit the plan to the Board of Trustees with its
recommendation that the Board of Trustees, by ordinance duly adopted, approve
the Final Plan, with or without modifications and conditions to be accepted by
the applicant as a condition of such approval, and shall grant a special use
permit authorizing the Final Plan of the proposed PMD and such additional
approvals as may be necessary to permit development of the PMD as approved.
c.   Recommendation Of Approval Without Substantial Conformity: If the PCZBA
finds that the Final Plan is not in substantial conformity with the Development
Concept Plan but merits approval notwithstanding such lack of conformity and
otherwise conforms to the requirements of this Code, it shall transmit the plan
to the Board of Trustees with its recommendation that the Board of Trustees, by
ordinance duly adopted, approve the Final Plan, with or without modifications
and conditions to be accepted by the applicant as a condition of such approval,
and shall grant a special use permit authorizing the Final Plan of the proposed
PMD and such additional approvals as may be necessary to permit development of
the PMD as approved.
d.   Recommendation Of Denial: If the PCZBA finds that the Final Plan is not in
substantial conformity with the approved Development Concept Plan and does not
merit approval, or if the PCZBA requires modifications to the Final Plan that
are not accepted by the applicant, then the PCZBA shall transmit the plan to
the Board of Trustees together with its recommendation that the Final Plan not
be approved.
e.   Failure To Act: The failure of the PCZBA to commence its public hearing
within sixty (60) days, or such further time to which the applicant may agree,
shall be deemed a decision to make no recommendation to the Board of Trustees
regarding the Final Plan as submitted.
6.   Action By Architectural Board Of Review: No later than sixty (60) days
after the conclusion of the public hearing by the PCZBA concerning the Final
Plan, the Architectural Board of Review will conduct a public meeting for the
purpose of conducting a design review pursuant to section
10-2C-6 of this title concerning the Final Plan. Within thirty (30) days after
the conclusion of the public meeting, the ABR shall make its recommendation to
the Board of Trustees that the Final Plan design be approved, be approved
subject to modifications, or not be approved. The failure of the ABR to make
its recommendation within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the public
meeting, or such further time to which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed
a decision to make no recommendation on the Final Plan design as submitted.
7.   Action By Board Of Trustees: Within sixty (60) days after the ABR and the
PCZBA have made their respective recommendations, or their failure to act as
provided in subsections C5 and C6, respectively, of this section, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed as follows:
a.   Approval Based On Substantial Conformity: If the PCZBA has recommended
approval of a Final Plan pursuant to subsection C5b of this section, the Board
of Trustees shall, unless it specifically rejects one (1) or more of the
findings of the PCZBA on the basis of expressly stated reasons, approve the
Final Plan by a duly adopted ordinance; or
b.   Approval Without Substantial Conformity: In any case other than that
specified in subsection C7a of this section, the Board of Trustees may, if it
finds that the Final Plan merits approval and otherwise conforms to the
requirements of this title, approve the Final Plan by a duly adopted ordinance;
or
c.   Referral Back To PCZBA: In any case other than that specified in
subsection C7a of this section, the Board of Trustees may refer the Final Plan
back to the PCZBA for further consideration of specified matters; or
d.   Conditions On Final Plan Approval: The approval of any Final Plan may be
granted with or without modifications and conditions to be accepted by the
applicant as a condition of approval.
8.   Recording Of Final Plan: When a Final Plan is approved, the Village
Administrator shall cause the Final Plan and special use permit ordinance, or
the portions thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded with the Lake County
Recorder.
9.   Limitation On Final Plan Approval: Construction shall commence in
accordance with the approved Final Plan within one (1) year after the approval
of such plan, or within such time as may be established by the approved
development schedule pursuant to the special use permit ordinance. Failure to
commence construction within such period shall, unless an extension of time
shall have been granted by the Village Administrator, automatically render void
the Final Plan approval and all approvals of the planned mixed-use development
and all permits based on such approvals, and the Village Administrator shall,
without further direction, initiate an appropriate application to revoke the
special use permit for all portions of the planned mixed-use development that
have not yet been completed.
10.   Building And Other Permits: Except as provided in this subsection C10,
appropriate officials of the Village, after receiving notice from the Village
Administrator that the documents required for Final Plan approval have been
approved and upon proper application by the applicant, may issue building and
other permits to the applicant for the development, construction, and other
work in the area encompassed by the approved Final Plan; provided, however,
that no permit shall be issued unless the appropriate official is first
satisfied that the requirements of any codes or ordinances of the Village, in
addition to this chapter, that are applicable to the permit sought, have been
satisfied. Building permits may, however, be withheld at the discretion of the
Village Administrator or the Board of Trustees at any time it is determined
that the development of the PMD is not undertaken in strict compliance with the
approved Final Plan. (Ord. 2016-23, 9-12-2016)
10-15-3: STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS:
A.   Special Use Permit Standards: No special use permit for a PMD shall be
recommended or granted pursuant to this section unless the applicant shall
establish that the proposed PMD meets the standards made applicable to special
uses pursuant to subsection 10-2C-10 of this title.
B.   General Design Standards: No special use permit for a PMD shall be
recommended by the PCZBA or granted by the Village Board pursuant to this
section unless the applicant has established that the proposed PMD meets the
following additional standards, to the extent practical and applicable to the
specific PMD, and except as the Village Board may otherwise provide in the
ordinance granting a PMD:
1.   Comprehensive Plan: The PMD shall not be inconsistent with the planning
policies, goals, objectives, principles, and provisions of the Village's
Comprehensive Plan.
2.   Public Welfare: The PMD shall be designed, located, and proposed to be
operated and maintained so that it will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property and will not substantially increase the danger of
fire or otherwise endanger the public health, safety and welfare.
3.   Uses: The PMD may include uses permitted in the B Residence District (R-
4), the C Residence District (R-5), and the Central Business District (CBD), in
addition to other uses suitable to the proposed location of the PMD.
4.   Impact On Other Property: The PMD shall not be unnecessarily injurious to
the use or enjoyment of surrounding properties for the purposes permitted
pursuant to the applicable zoning district, shall not prevent the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding properties for permitted
uses, shall not be inconsistent with the community character of the
neighborhood, shall not alter the essential character of the neighborhood or be
incompatible with other property in the immediate vicinity. The uses permitted
on a PMD must be of a type and so located so as to exercise no undue
detrimental influence upon surrounding properties. The PMD must also address
compliance with the Village's noise, lighting, and other performance standards.
5.   Impact On Public Facilities And Resources: The PMD shall be designed so
that adequate utilities, road access, drainage, and other necessary facilities
will be provided to serve the PMD.
6.   Archaeological, Historical Or Cultural Impact: The PMD shall not
substantially and adversely affect a known archaeological, historical, or
cultural resource located on or off of the parcel(s) proposed for development.
7.   Parking And Traffic: The PMD shall have or make adequate provision to
provide ingress and egress to the proposed use in a manner that minimizes
traffic congestion in the public streets, provides appropriate cross access to
adjacent properties and parking areas, and provides adequate access for
emergency vehicles. Adequate parking shall be provided for the uses permitted
in the PMD.
8.   Landscaping, Open Space, And Buffering: Consistent with the nature of the
proposed PMD, the PMD shall provide landscaping, public open space, and other
buffering features as necessary to reasonably protect uses within the
development and surrounding properties, including without limitation reasonable
and practical buffering related to the visual impact of the PMD on surrounding
properties.
9.   Signage: Signage on the site of the PMD shall generally be in conformity
with the Village's sign regulations, except as may otherwise be specifically
provided in the ordinance approving a PMD.
10.   Ownership/Control Area: The site of the PMD must be under ownership and/
or unified control of the applicant.
11.   Compliance With Subdivision Regulations And Plat Act: All PMDs, whether
or not they are by definition subject to the Village's subdivision regulations
or the Illinois Plat Act, shall comply with all standards, regulations and
procedures of the Village's subdivision regulations and the Plat Act except as
is expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, or as otherwise provided by
the Board of Trustees pursuant to the ordinance approving the PMD, or the
applicable sections of the Village's subdivision regulations.
12.   Covenants And Restrictions To Be Enforceable By Village: All covenants,
deed restrictions, easements, and similar restrictions to be recorded in
connection with the PMD, if any, shall provide that they may not be modified,
removed, or released without the express consent of the Board of Trustees and
that they may be enforced by the Village as well as by future landowners within
the PMD.
13.   Security And Site Control: The PMD shall include the plans necessary to
describe, establish, and maintain appropriate property and building security
and site control measures for the PMD and the property on which the PMD is
located. These plans shall also include measures to address adverse impacts on
neighboring properties.
14.   Integrated Design: A PMD shall be laid out and developed as a unit in
accordance with an integrated overall design. This design shall provide for
safe, efficient, convenient and harmonious grouping of structures, uses and
facilities, and for appropriate relation of space inside and outside buildings
to intended uses and structural features.
15.   Beneficial Common Open Space: To the extent practical, common open space
in the PMD shall be integrated into the overall design. These open spaces shall
have a direct functional or visual relationship to the main building(s) and
shall not be of isolated or leftover character. The following would not be
considered usable common open space:
a.   Areas reserved for the exclusive use or benefit of an individual tenant or
owner; or reserved for the exclusive use of tenants or owners, but not the
public.
b.   Dedicated streets, alleys and other public rights-of-way.
c.   Vehicular drives, parking, loading and storage areas.
d.   Irregular or unusable narrow strips of land.
16.   Functional And Mechanical Features: Storage areas, trash and garbage
retainers, machinery installations, service areas, truck loading areas, utility
buildings and structures, and similar accessory areas and structures shall be
accounted for in the design of the PMD and enclosed or made as unobtrusive as
possible. These features shall be subject to such setbacks, special planting or
other screening methods as shall reasonably be required to prevent their being
incongruous with the existing or contemplated environment and the surrounding
properties.
17.   Vehicle Drives, Parking And Circulation: Principal vehicular access shall
be from dedicated public streets, and access points shall be designed to
encourage smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum
hazards to vehicular or pedestrian traffic. With respect to vehicular and
pedestrian circulation, including walkways, interior drives and parking,
special attention shall be given to location and number of access points to the
public streets, width of interior drives and access points, general interior
circulation, separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, adequate provision
for service by emergency vehicles, sharing of parking between uses in the PMD,
and arrangement of parking areas that are safe and convenient, and insofar as
feasible, do not detract from the design of proposed buildings and structures
and the neighboring properties. Landscaping shall be provided to screen parking
areas from neighboring properties.
18.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Access And Circulation: PMDs shall emphasize safe,
efficient, and comprehensive pedestrian-friendly movement and shall further
emphasize bicycle access and circulation, including without limitation
providing connections to and from existing bike and walking paths so as to
ensure a continuous route without gaps or disconnections.
19.   Lighting: Lighting for the PMD shall preserve and enhance the "dark at
night" character of the Village by: a) enabling individuals to view essential
detail to permit them to undertake their activities at night; b) facilitating
safety and security of persons and property; and c) curtailing the degradation
of the nighttime visual environment.
20.   Surface Water Drainage: Special attention shall be given to proper site
surface drainage so that removal of surface waters will not adversely affect
neighboring properties or the public storm drainage system. Surface water in
all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so that it will not obstruct
the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
21.   Compliance With Tree Regulations: The PMD must comply with all standards,
regulations and procedures of the Village's tree regulations, as provided in
chapter 11 of this title.
22.   Compliance With Watershed Development Ordinance: The PMD must comply with
all standards, regulations, and procedures of the Village's watershed
development ordinance, ordinance 2001-16, as it may be amended from time to
time.
23.   Water And Sewer Service: The PMD must comply with all Municipal Code
requirements concerning the public water supply and sanitary sewer service
necessary to serve the PMD.
C.   Maximum PMD Height: No building or structure in any PMD shall exceed
thirty feet (30') in height, nor shall any building or structure in any PMD
exceed two (2) stories.
D.   Conditions: The approval of a Final Plan may be conditioned on such
matters as the Board of Trustees may find necessary to: 1) prevent or minimize
any possible adverse effects of the proposed PMD; 2) ensure compatibility of
the various uses that may exist within the PMD; or 3) ensure its compatibility
with surrounding uses and development and its consistency with the general
purposes, goals, and objectives of this chapter, the Village's Subdivision
Code, and the Village's Comprehensive Plan. Such conditions shall be expressly
set forth in the ordinance approving the PMD. Violation of any such condition
or limitation shall be a violation of this chapter and shall constitute grounds
for revocation of all approvals granted for the planned mixed-use development.
(Ord. 2016-23, 9-12-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-15-4: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY REGULATIONS:
A.   Authority: Subject to the standards and limitations in this section, the
Board of Trustees, as part of an approval of any PMD, may modify any provision
of this chapter or of the Village's subdivision ordinance as they apply to an
approved PMD, subject to the limitations in this section.
B.   Standards: No such modification may be approved unless the Board of
Trustees shall find that the proposed PMD:
1.   Will achieve the purposes for which PMD may be approved pursuant to
section
10-15-1 of this chapter;
2.   Will not violate the general purposes, goals, and objectives of this Code
and the Village's Comprehensive Plan;
3.   Will result in a development providing amenities to the Village that may
not be otherwise required under this chapter or other applicable Village codes
and ordinances, including without limitation such things as public art; plazas;
pedestrian walkways; natural habitats; increased landscaping; buffering or
screening; enhanced streetscape; enhanced pedestrian and transit supportive
design; underground parking; and similar features.
C.   Other Limitations: In granting any PMD approval pursuant to this chapter,
the Board of Trustees shall in no event:
1.   Make less stringent any performance standard relating to noise, vibration,
smoke and particulate matter, odors, toxic and noxious matter, radiation
hazards, fire and explosive hazards, or heat or glare, that is applicable in
the district in which the development is to be located or applicable to the
particular use by reason of the regulations applicable in any district in which
it might be located; or
2.   Reduce the minimum total lot area requirement by more than fifty percent
(50%). This limitation does not apply to any minimum lot area per unit
requirement.
3.   Allow for the maximum height of any building or structure within the PMD
to exceed thirty feet (30') in height or to exceed two (2) stories, except
pursuant to and in conjunction with an application for and approval of a
variation from subsection 10-15-3C of this chapter in accordance with the
variation procedures set forth in section 10-2-4 of this title.
D.   Regulation During And After Completion Of Development: After a Final Plan
has been approved, that approved plan will constitute the regulations
applicable to the subject property, rather than any conflicting provision of
this title. No use or development not authorized by the approved plan will be
permitted within the planned mixed-use development. (Ord. 2016-23, 9-12-2016)
10-15-5: MINOR ADJUSTMENTS AND AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED FINAL PLAN:
A.   Minor Adjustments: During the development of a PMD, the Village Board may
authorize minor adjustments to an approved Final Plan that appear necessary to,
and consistent with, proper completion of the development as contemplated by
the approval ordinance. Such minor adjustments may include, without limitation,
the following:
1.   Altering the location of any one (1) structure or any part thereof, or any
group of structures, by not more than five percent (5%) of the distance shown
on the approved Final Plan between such structure or structures and any other
structure or any vehicular circulation element or any boundary of the planned
mixed-use development, whichever is less; and
2.   Altering the location of any circulation element by not more than five
percent (5%) of the distance shown on the approved Final Plan between such
circulation element and any structure, whichever is less; and
3.   Altering the location of any open space by not more than five percent (5%)
of the distance shown on the approved Final Plan; and
4.   Altering any final grade by not more than five percent (5%) of the
originally planned grade; and
5.   Altering the location or type of landscaping elements, provided that such
minor adjustment will not result in the reduction of required landscaping or be
inconsistent with the nature and type of landscaping required by the approved
landscape plan.
B.   Standards: Minor adjustments shall be consistent with the intent and
purpose of this title and the Final Plan, as approved, shall be the minimum
necessary to overcome the particular difficulty, and shall not be approved if
they would result in a violation of any standard or requirement of this
chapter. All minor adjustments shall be approved by the Board by resolution
duly adopted, subject to such review by the Board and other boards and
commissions of the Village as the Board may deem appropriate.
C.   Amendments To Approved Final Plan: Changes or adjustments to a PMD during
or after completion of a PMD that are not minor adjustments pursuant to
subsections A and B of this section, shall require an amendment to the PMD in
the same manner and subject to the same procedures and limitations as required
for adoption of an initial PMD under the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-23,
9-12-2016)
10-15-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Minimum Data Requirements For All Applications: Every application
submitted pursuant to this chapter shall contain at least the following
information:
1.   The owner's name and address and the owner's signed consent to the filing
of the application. Full disclosure of the ownership of all legal and equitable
interests in the lot is required.
2.   The lot owner's name and address, if different from the owner, and his or
her interest in the lot.
3.   The names and addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising
the owner with respect to the application.
4.   The name and address and the nature and extent of any economic or family
interest of any officer or employee of the Village in the owner, the lot owner,
or lot.
5.   The addresses and legal description of the lot.
6.   Descriptions and graphic representations of the proposal for which
approval is being sought and of the existing zoning classification, use, and
development of the lot and the adjacent area for at least two hundred fifty
feet (250') in all directions from the lot. The scope and detail of such
description shall be appropriate to the subject matter of the application, with
special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the
approval being sought in the application. These descriptions and
representations shall be provided no later than necessary for presentation by
the applicant at the public hearing before the PCZBA pursuant to subsection 10-
15-2B3 of this chapter.
B.   Applications For Development Concept Plan Approval: Every application for
Development Concept Plan approval shall, in addition to the data and
information required pursuant to subsection A of this section, provide at least
ten (10) sets of plans and documents of the following:
1.   Development Concept Plan: A plan showing the basic scope, character, and
nature of the entire PMD including the following information:
a.   Character: Explanation of the character of the PMD and the manner in which
it has been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of these regulations.
b.   Ownership: Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within
the project, including present tract designation according to official records
in offices of the County Recorder.
c.   Nature And Type Of Uses: Information on the nature and type of uses in the
PMD and within each building proposed in the PMD.
d.   Service Facilities: Information on all service facilities and off street
parking facilities in the PMD.
e.   Preliminary Architectural Drawings: Preliminary architectural drawings for
all primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development, and the height, number,
location, and design of the building(s) in the PMD.
f.   Conceptual Site Plan: A conceptual site plan of the proposed PMD,
including building locations, property lines, setbacks, streets, circulation
systems for pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles, open space, landscaped areas,
parking, existing and proposed tree locations, and recreational facilities.
g.   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required by the
PCZBA.
C.   Applications For Final Plan Approval: Every application filed pursuant to
this chapter shall, in addition to the data and information required in
subsection A of this section, provide the following information:
1.   Detailed Plan: A drawing of the PMD shall be prepared at a scale of not
less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall show such
designations as proposed streets (public and private), all buildings and their
use, common open space, recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas and
other facilities to indicate the character of the proposed PMD. The submission
may be composed of one (1) or more sheets and drawings and shall include:
a.   Boundary Lines: Bearings and distances.
b.   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
c.   Streets On And Adjacent To The Tract: Street name, right-of- way width,
existing or proposed centerline elevations, pavement type, walks, curbs,
gutters, culverts, etc.
d.   Utilities On And Adjacent To The Tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines and
streetlights; direction and distance to and size of nearest water mains and
sewers adjacent to the tract showing invert elevation of sewers.
e.   Ground Elevations On The Tract: Show one foot (1') contours, show spot
elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales and
at selected points not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all
directions.
f.   Subsurface Conditions On The Tract, If Required By The Village Engineer:
Location and results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and
ground water conditions; depth to ground water unless test pits are dry at a
depth of five feet (5').
g.   Other Conditions On The Tract: Watercourses, floodplains, wetland
delineations, marshes, rock outcrop, wooded areas, protected trees as
designated in the Village's tree protection regulations at section
10-11-4 of this title, houses, barns, accessory buildings and other significant
features, and any Federal, State or other non-Village permits required for the
PMD.
h.   Other Conditions On Adjacent Land: Approximate direction and gradient of
ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls; character and
location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other nearby land
uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent platted land; for the adjacent
platted land refer to subdivision plat by name, recording date and number and
show approximate percent built up, typical lot size and dwelling type.
i.   Zoning On And Adjacent To The Tract: Provide zoning classification on and
adjacent to the tract.
j.   Proposed Public Improvements: Highways or other major improvements planned
by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
k.   Open Space: To the extent applicable, all lots intended to be dedicated
for public use or reserved for the use of all lot owners with the purpose
indicated.
l.   General Location, Purpose And Height: General location, purpose and
height, in feet and stories, of each building.
m.   Map Data: Name of development, north point and scale, date of preparation
and acreage of site.
n.   Water Facilities: The preliminary plat shall have depicted on its face all
lakes, ponds, detention sites, retention sites and dams. This includes existing
lakes, ponds, detention sites, retention sites and dams or proposed lakes,
ponds, detention sites, retention sites or dams. If the water facility is
proposed, the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by preliminary engineering
plans, including the depth, capacity and relation of the water facility to
proposed storm drain facilities.
o.   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required by the
PCZBA.
p.   Final Building Elevations And Floor Plans: Schematic drawings illustrating
the design and character of the building elevations, types of construction, and
floor plans for all proposed buildings and structures. The drawings shall also
include a schedule showing the number, type, and floor area for all uses or
combinations of uses, and the floor area for the entire proposed planned
development.
q.   Traffic Studies: Detailed information as required by the Village
concerning traffic circulation within the PMD and the mitigation of traffic
impacts created by the PMD on surrounding Village, County, and State roads.
r.   Watershed Development Ordinance: Information as required by the Village to
demonstrate compliance with the Village's watershed development ordinance.
2.   Final Plat: A final land use and zoning plat, suitable for recording with
the County Recorder of deeds shall be prepared. The purpose of the land use and
zoning plat is to designate with particularity the land subdivided into
conventional lots as well as the division of other land not so treated into
common open areas and building areas. The final land use and zoning plat shall
include, but not be limited to:
a.   Legal Description Of Entire Area: An accurate legal description of the
entire area under immediate development within the PMD.
b.   Subdivision Plat: A subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same
form and meeting all the requirements of a normal subdivision plat.
c.   Legal Description Of Unsubdivided Use Area: An accurate legal description
of each separate unsubdivided use area, including common open space.
d.   Location Of All Buildings To Be Constructed: Designation of the exact
location of all buildings to be constructed, including minimum setbacks from
lot lines.
e.   Certificates, Seals And Signatures: Certificates, seals and signatures
required for the dedication of lands and recording the document.
f.   Tabulations On Separate Unsubdivided Use Area: Tabulations on separate
unsubdivided use area, if any, including land area and number of buildings.
g.   Water Facilities: The location of all lakes, ponds, detention sites,
retention sites and dams shall be depicted and accurately located on the final
plat.
3.   Public Open Space Documents: To the extent applicable, common open space
in the PMD that is to be dedicated for the use of the public shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, conveyed to a not-for-profit
corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners of
the PMD or retained by the developer with legally binding guarantees, in a form
approved by the Village Attorney, that the common open space will be
permanently preserved as open area. All land conveyed to a not-for-profit
corporation or like entity shall be subject to the right of said corporation to
impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and improvement of the common
open space.
4.   Public Facilities: The construction of all public facilities and
improvements made necessary as a result of the PMD shall either be completed
prior to final plat approval, or be guaranteed by a security deposit.
5.   Security Deposit: The satisfactory installation of the public facilities
and improvements required to be constructed within the PMD shall be guaranteed
by a security consistent with the subdivision regulations, including, without
limitation, a letter of credit, in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the estimated cost of public facility installations. The balance of
the security deposit shall not be returned after the completion of the public
facility installations unless a guarantee security deposit in an amount of ten
percent (10%) of the total cost of the required facilities is first delivered
to the Village. Such guarantee security deposit shall be maintained for a
period of twenty four (24) months.
6.   Delinquent Taxes: A certificate shall be furnished from the proper
collector that all special assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any
part of the lot of the PMD have been paid.
7.   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the
use, maintenance and continued protection of the PMD.
8.   Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
a.   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area, density, use
and public facilities such as open space to be developed with each stage.
Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plat and through supporting
graphic material.
b.   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
c.   The mix of uses to be built in each stage.
9.   Traffic Mitigation:
a.   All new developments shall be required to provide a traffic study,
prepared by a qualified traffic engineer, to establish trips generated,
necessary road and other improvements, and other reasonably necessary
information relating to traffic impact of the development on Village, County or
State roads.
b.   All developments shall be required to provide an employee traffic
mitigation plan. The plan will establish specific actions by the owner to limit
peak hour vehicular traffic generated by the development. These actions might
include staggered work hours, ridesharing, vanpools, rideshare or transit
promotion, or preferential parking plan.
10.   Lighting Plans: A final photometric/lighting plan for the proposed PMD
including technical descriptions and cut sheets for all lighting fixtures. Any
permitted accessory lighting fixtures shall be designed, arranged, and operated
so as to prevent glare and direct rays of light from being cast onto any
adjacent public or private property or street and so as not to produce
excessive sky-reflected glare.
11.   Landscaping Plans: A final landscape plan depicting the location, size,
character, and composition of all trees, landscape materials and other
vegetation for the PMD.
12.   Facilities Plans: Final plans for:
a.   If applicable, roads including classification, width or right- of-way,
width of pavement and typical construction details.
b.   Sanitary sewer system.
c.   Storm drainage system.
d.   Water supply system.
D.   Modification Or Waiver Of Application Requirements: Upon written request
of the applicant, the Village Administrator may modify the requirements to
submit any plans or documents required pursuant to this section, provided that
no required submittals may be waived without the prior review and approval of
the PCZBA and Village Board. (Ord. 2016-23, 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 16
RECREATIONAL, INSTITUTIONAL, AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT (RIO)
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Prior Zoning Relief In The RIO District
10-16-3: Permitted And Special Uses
10-16-4: Bulk Regulations
10-16-5: Parking
10-16-6: Performance Standards
10-16-7: RIO Development Plan Review
10-16-8: Effect Of RIO Development Plan Approval
10-16-9: Amendments To Approved RIO Development Plan
10-16-10: Coordination Of Design Review
10-16-11: Fees
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
The intent of this chapter is to adopt regulations and procedures specifically
tailored to reflect and be consistent with: a) the unique use and form
considerations of public amenities as well as community and governmental
functions, and b) the often highly specific needs of such uses as to location,
intensity of use, and massing, which regulations may be modified pursuant to
the terms of this chapter if they impose unnecessary rigidities on the proposed
development or redevelopment of a parcel or parcels of land that require an
individual, planned approach.
The Recreational, Institutional, and Open Space District (the RIO District)
promotes the efficient use of land with a flexible set of regulations that meet
these highly specific needs in a manner that is intended to achieve and balance
the objectives of:
A.   Maximizing the predictability of land use and public benefits as a result
of the development and use of property;
B.   Providing public amenities including schools, parks, open space, and
recreational facilities;
C.   Enhancing the character and vitality of RIO District properties in harmony
with adjacent uses and residential neighborhoods;
D.   Preserving natural, cultural, and historic features;
E.   Minimizing the regulatory time and expense burden on the property owner;
and,
F.   Facilitating development in harmony with the Village's Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-16-2: PRIOR ZONING RELIEF IN THE RIO DISTRICT:
A.   Continued Effect: Any applicable conditions of a prior variation, special
use permit, or other zoning relief previously granted to property in the RIO
District shall remain in full force and effect, even when the prior authorized
use no longer requires a special use permit or when the prior improvements
would not require zoning relief under the regulations of the RIO District.
B.   Changes: Where the approval of a RIO Development Plan, pursuant to section
10-16-7 of this chapter, conflicts with the conditions of prior zoning relief,
the terms of the RIO Development Plan approval shall prevail. Additionally, a
property owner subject to the conditions of prior zoning relief may, in
conjunction with an application for RIO Development Plan, request termination
of, amendments to, or restatements of these prior conditions. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-
28-2019)
10-16-3: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
No building or lot shall be used within the RIO District for any purpose other
than those permitted and special uses identified in the zoning use table at
section
10-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-16-4: BULK REGULATIONS:
The following bulk regulations shall apply to all principal and accessory
structures within the RIO District:
A.   Front And Rear Yards: Each front and rear yard shall have a minimum depth
of ten percent (10%) of the depth of the lot; but in no case shall a required
front or rear yard be less than twenty feet (20') or greater than fifty feet
(50').
B.   Side Yards: Each side yard shall have a minimum depth of ten percent (10%)
of the width of the lot; but in no case shall a required side yard be less than
twenty feet (20') or greater than fifty feet (50').
C.   Highway Buffer Yards: In addition to any other yards required by this
section, where any lot abuts upon a U.S. or State public highway, there shall
be a minimum setback from any such highway of not less than one hundred feet
(100') for each side bordering or abutting on such highway.
D.   Residential Buffer Yards: In addition to any other yards required by this
section, whenever property in the RIO District abuts residentially zoned
property, a yard with a minimum depth of thirty feet (30') shall be provided
from each lot line bordering or abutting such residentially zoned property.
E.   Height: No building or structure in the RIO District shall exceed thirty
feet (30') in height, nor shall any building or structure in the RIO District
exceed two (2) stories.
F.   Lot Coverage: The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings, including
accessory buildings, shall be not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of
the lot. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-16-5: PARKING:
A.   Parking Regulations: The regulations for parking in the RIO District shall
be identical with regulations in the CBD Central Business District (CBD) set
forth in subsections 10-6A-8A through C of this title.
B.   Minimum Required Spaces:
1.   For Specified Uses: For the following uses, the following minimum number
of on-site parking spaces shall be provided:
 
Churches, houses of worship, and other 1 space per 6 seats in the main
assembly spaces                        auditorium or largest room in the
                                       building, whichever is greater
Recreation:
                                       1 space per 3 occupants of area used by
Indoor participatory (e.g., community  participants or per 3 maximum number of
centers)                               likely participants at any one time,
                                       whichever is less
Outdoor participatory (e.g., tennis    2/3 of the maximum number of
courts, swimming pools)                participants at any one time
Outdoor passive (e.g., playgrounds,    No minimum
trails, shelters)
Schools and day cares                  1 space per employee
 
"Occupants" shall refer to the maximum legal occupancy permitted pursuant to
the Village's building regulations set forth in title 9 of this Code.
"Maximum number of participants" is calculated based on the maximum number of
participants likely to participate in the activity, as determined by the
Building Commissioner. For example, basketball is typically played with two (2)
teams of five (5) players. Therefore, the maximum number of participants is
likely to be ten (10) at any one time for a full-size basketball court. As a
further example, doubles tennis is played by four (4) players. Therefore, the
maximum number of participants is four (4) at any one time for a tennis court.
The Building Commissioner shall not factor in spectators and substitute players
in establishing the maximum number of participants, but the Village may
consider spectators, substitute players, and other likely users of a property
when considering whether to require additional minimum parking spaces as
provided elsewhere in this section.
2.   For All Other Uses: For all other uses not herein defined, there shall be
a parking area of sufficient size to provide not less than one parking space
for each six hundred (600) square feet of the total floor area of any building
or buildings, including all accessory buildings erected on the lot.
3.   Fractional Spaces Excluded: Where determination of the number of required
parking spaces results in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction
shall not be included in calculating the minimum number of required parking
spaces.
4.   Uses In Bluffs And Ravines Excluded: That portion of any use which lies
within a bluff protection area or a ravine protection area shall not be
included in calculating the minimum number of required parking spaces.
5.   Credit For Street Parking: The number of minimum spaces required pursuant
to this section shall be reduced by the number of lawful parking spaces
available on the public street adjacent to the site and not adjacent to any
residential buffer yard.
6.   Imposition Of Additional Minimum Parking: Notwithstanding anything
contained in this title to the contrary, if the parking requirements of any use
in this district exceeds the ratios as hereinbefore defined, additional parking
spaces shall be provided on the lot on which the use is situated. As a
condition of RIO Development Plan approval pursuant to section
10-16-7 of this chapter, the Village may require more on-site parking spaces
than may otherwise be required pursuant to this section to insure that there is
adequate on-site parking to minimize traffic and parking congestion on the
public streets.
7.   Existing Parking Non-Conformities: Notwithstanding anything contained in
this chapter to the contrary, the legal non-conforming status of any deficiency
in the required minimum number of parking stalls shall be protected unless, as
a component of RIO Development Plan approval, the Village determines a new use,
or an increase in the intensity of an existing use, will generate additional
parking demand above that previously existing upon the site. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-
28-2019)
10-16-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The performance standards in the RIO District shall be identical with the
performance standards for the L-1 Light Industrial District as set forth in
section
10-7A-7 of this title. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-16-7: RIO DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW:
No person may conduct or shall be entitled to establish a new use or obtain a
building permit from the Village or other applicable permitting authority to
construct, reconstruct, alter, or move any building or structure on any
property within the RIO District without the approval of a RIO Development Plan
unless exempt under subsection F of this section.
A.   Intent: At the time of the creation of the RIO District, a significant
area within the district has pre-existing development and uses that would
frustrate the application of traditional "planned development" tools.
Accordingly, the RIO Development Plan process is designed to coordinate
planning and zoning review so as to accommodate incremental changes to existing
buildings and uses. It also may be used by applicants proposing major or phased
development proposals over an extended period of time. The Village anticipates
that users in the RIO District will, through long range planning and public
engagement, work cooperatively to further the public benefits of proposed
development outside of this regulatory process.
B.   Application Requirements: The application requirements for a RIO
Development Plan review shall be the same as those required for design review
pursuant to subsection
10-2C-6 of this title. Upon request, the Building Commissioner may exempt an
applicant from including in its application any required items if the Building
Commissioner determines that a required item is not applicable or necessary for
the consideration of the application. In addition, the Building Commissioner
and any reviewing body may request additional information necessary to evaluate
the standards set forth herein. Without limitation, this may include the
submittal of traffic and parking studies by a qualified professional to
ascertain the trip generation and parking demand that would be created by a
proposed use or development.
C.   Procedure: The procedure and public notice requirements for RIO
Development Plan review shall be the same as required for site plan review
pursuant to subsections 10-2-8B and C of this title, except that references to
the Architectural Board of Review in subsections 10-2-8B and C of this title
shall be deemed references to the Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals.
D.   Standards: No RIO Development Plan shall be approved by the Board of
Trustees, and the Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall not
recommend approval of, a RIO Development Plan unless the applicant shall
establish that the RIO Development Plan meets the following standards, as each
may be applicable:
1.   General Standard: Development in accordance with the RIO Development Plan
will not have a substantial or undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the
character of the area, or the public health, safety, and general welfare.
2.   Land Use Policy: Development in accordance with the RIO Development Plan
is consistent with the general and specific purposes and requirements of this
title, the RIO District, and the Village's Comprehensive Plan.
3.   Public Facilities: The property, development in accordance with the RIO
Development Plan, will be adequately served by essential public facilities and
services such as streets, public utilities, drainage structures, police and
fire protection, and refuse disposal; or the applicant shall provide adequately
for such services as a condition of approval.
4.   Traffic And Parking: Development in accordance with the RIO Development
Plan would generate traffic demand compatible with surrounding uses and road
classifications. The RIO Development Plan provides adequate ingress and egress
in a manner that minimizes traffic congestion and provides adequate and
appropriate parking, access to adjacent properties, and access for emergency
vehicles.
5.   Landscape And Open Space Buffering: The RIO Development Plan provides for
landscaping, public open space, and other buffering features to minimize the
visual impact of the development and to protect uses within the development and
surrounding properties.
6.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Access And Circulation: The RIO Development Plan
provides for efficient and comprehensive pedestrian-friendly movement, as well
as efficient and comprehensive bicycle access and circulation.
7.   Sensitive Areas And Features: The RIO Development Plan protects culturally
sensitive areas and features; historic areas and features; and sensitive
natural, scenic, and ecological areas features such as ravines, wetlands, and
bluffs.
E.   Authority To Modify Regulations: The Board of Trustees, as part of the
approval of any RIO Development Plan, may modify or waive any provision of this
Code or of the Village's subdivision ordinance as they apply to the approved
RIO Development Plan ("deviations"), so long as the Board of Trustees finds
that the deviations:
1.   Will achieve the purposes for which the RIO Development Plan may be
approved pursuant to section
10-16-1 of this chapter;
2.   Will not violate the general purposes, goals, and objectives of this Code
and the Village's Comprehensive Plan;
3.   Will result in a development providing amenities to the Village that may
not be otherwise required under this chapter or other applicable Village codes
and ordinances, including without limitation such things as public art; plazas;
pedestrian walkways; natural habitats; increased landscaping; buffering or
screening; enhanced streetscape; enhanced pedestrian and transit supportive
design; underground parking; and similar features. If applicable, the proposed
use for the property may itself be considered a compensating amenity when the
proposed use is one that is open to the public and provides a benefit to the
community as a whole.
No finding of hardship or a unique condition by the Board of Trustees is
necessary for the approval of a deviation of any provision of this Code or of
the Village's subdivision ordinance.
F.   Exemptions: Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the following
activities shall not require RIO Development Plan approval, except where: 1)
deviations from this title are necessary to proceed as provided in subsection E
of this section or 2) where the activities would result in a "substantial
change" as that term is defined in section
10-16-9 of this chapter:
1.   Maintenance to or repair of existing improvements, including, without
limitation, any repainting, resurfacing; resealing; restriping; or repaving of
existing improvements.
2.   Within an existing park, the addition, re-arrangement, or reconfiguration
of playground equipment, recreational equipment, or open air shelters with
sides no more than fifty percent (50%) enclosed, provided that said activity
does not increase the extent of any encroachment upon a residential buffer yard
required by this chapter.
3.   Changes to landscaping, except where doing so would reduce the landscape
screening provided within a residential buffer yard required by this chapter.
Exception: The removal of Class D trees or any exotic and invasive species, as
those terms are defined in chapter 11 of this title, shall not be considered as
a reduction in landscape screening.
4.   The addition or reconfiguration of walking trails, paths, and other
similar amenities for bicyclists and pedestrians, provided that such
improvements do not encroach upon a residential buffer yard required by this
chapter.
5.   Changes to signage subject to review by the Architectural Board of Review
pursuant to chapter 10 of this title.
6.   The reconstruction or reduction of the size of a building within the
existing footprint of the building, or alterations to the interior of an
existing building.
7.   The modification or alteration of the facade of a building.
8.   An increase to the footprint or size of an existing building or the
construction or expansion of an accessory structure, provided such increase
does not qualify as a "substantial change", as that term is defined in section
10-16-9 of this chapter.
9.   Other changes of comparable or lesser significance. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-
2019; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-16-8: EFFECT OF RIO DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL:
A.   A RIO Development Plan approval shall be effective for a period of five
(5) years from approval or an approval of an amendment thereto, provided that
the Village Board may extend such approval for an additional five (5) years
upon a request from an applicant provided that the Village Board finds that the
RIO Development Plan still satisfies the standards set forth in subsection 10-
16-7D of this chapter.
B.   Except for any approvals required pursuant to section
10-16-9 of this chapter, upon approval of a RIO Development Plan, a property
owner may develop its property in accordance with an approved RIO Development
Plan without seeking additional zoning approvals provided that such development
does not require additional deviations or variations from this title or
subdivision ordinance. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-16-9: AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED RIO DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
A.   Substantial Change:
1.   For purposes of this section, the following changes in character of any
approved RIO development shall be "substantial changes":
a.   A change in the land uses on the subject property;
b.   An increase in the height of buildings on the subject property;
c.   An increase by more than two percent (2%) in floor area or building square
footage;
d.   An increase by more than two percent (2%) in the size of approved building
pads;
e.   A reduction of more than two percent (2%) in approved common open space;
f.   A substantial increase in the traffic volume generated by, or traffic
circulation of, the proposed RIO development;
g.   A reduction in the number of off-street parking or loading spaces below
the minimum required pursuant to section
10-16-5 of this chapter;
h.   Any change that, in the opinion of the Village Administrator, would
constitute a significant modification to the provision of public utilities to
the subject property; or
i.   Any change for which a variation, modification, or a waiver from any
provision of this title would otherwise be required.
2.   No substantial change to an approved RIO development may be implemented
except upon the adoption of an amendatory ordinance by the Village Board, which
amendatory ordinance may be adopted only after a public hearing by, and
recommendation of, the Joint Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals, in
the same manner, and subject to the same standards, as an application for a new
RIO Development Plan approval pursuant to section
10-16-7 of this chapter.
B.   Minor Change: The Village Administrator may approve changes to an approved
RIO development that do not, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Village
Administrator, constitute a "substantial change" to the RIO development, in
accordance with the following procedure:
1.   The Village Administrator may approve the proposed minor change upon
making a finding that the change is consistent with the intent and purpose of
the approved RIO Development Plan.
2.   The Village Administrator shall notify the Village Board of the approval
of a minor change within seven (7) days thereof.
3.   Within forty five (45) days of its receipt of the notice submitted by the
Village Administrator, the Village Board shall either: a) ratify the Village
Administrator's approval of the minor change, by resolution duly adopted, or b)
deny the minor change. Any minor change denied by the Village Board pursuant to
this subsection B may be reclassified as a "substantial change" and approved in
the same manner, and subject to the same standards, as an application for a new
RIO Development Plan approval.
4.   The failure of the Village Board to ratify or deny a minor change within
sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of notice thereof shall be deemed a
ratification of the minor change.
C.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or interpreted as obligating the
Village to grant any requested changes or amendments to an approved RIO
Development Plan. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019)
10-16-10: COORDINATION OF DESIGN REVIEW:
All properties in the RIO District are subject to design review by the
Architectural Board of Review pursuant to section
10-2C-6 of this title. Where RIO Development Plan review is also required
pursuant to section
10-16-8 of this chapter, these reviews shall be coordinated and acted upon
concurrently by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019; amd.
Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-16-11: FEES:
The fees, if any, to be collected by the Village in exchange for its
performance of RIO Development Review or ABR design review for any property in
the RIO District shall be set by the Village Board of Trustees in the Village's
comprehensive fee schedule, codified as section
1-12-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-2, 1-28-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 17
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS (PRDs)
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Applicability
10-17-3: Common Ownership Or Control
10-17-4: Uses In Planned Residential Developments
10-17-5: Bulk, Open Space, Parking, And Design Requirements In Planned
Residential Developments
10-17-6: Public Benefit For Planned Residential Developments
10-17-7: Procedure
10-17-8: Authority To Modify Regulations
10-17-9: Concurrent Review Of Preliminary And Final Development plan
10-17-10: Amendments
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
The Village of Lake Bluff Planned Residential Development (PRD) standards and
procedures in this Article are constructed to bring about development in
keeping with the unique natural and built environments of the Village. These
regulations advance development that is distinctive and attractive, but
respectful, complementary, and additive to the Village and nearby properties.
This is accomplished, in part, by sharing an understanding of the community,
its expectations for development, and how those expectations can be met. This
Chapter also defines the regulations and standards by which PRD applications
are evaluated and the process for review of such requests.
PRDs are special uses, subject to the standards and criteria of Section
10-2C-3.E of this Title, as well as the requirements of this Chapter. Within a
PRD, the traditional use, bulk, space, and yard regulations may be modified
pursuant to the standards and procedures set forth in Section
10-17-7 of this Title. Through the flexibility of a PRD, the Village seeks to
achieve the following objectives as appropriate and applicable for a particular
proposed development, among other objectives that are in the interest of the
Village and its residents:
A.   Reflects the Village’s general character with a development that:
1.   Creates a distinctive place in Lake Bluff, that is clearly part of the
overall community;
2.   Creates a neighborhood, and not just an isolated subdivision;
3.   Is at a scale that is inviting and comfortable to residents and visitors;
4.   Provides a mix of housing types that may include not just single-family
dwellings, but also townhomes, two-family dwellings, multiple-unit dwellings;
and
5.   Has the highest quality site designs and building materials.
B.   Incorporates existing physical site characteristics and infrastructure
that support resident quality of life and:
1.   Connects pedestrians and bicyclists to nearby developments, recreational
opportunities, and activities in a safe, appealing and efficient manner;
2.   Is harmonious with the community, tailored for Lake Bluff, and not
generic;
3.   Reflects the Village’s unique small-town character;
4.   Is internally consistent (but not monotonous in design) in terms of
layout, landscape, rhythm of streets and structures, and building materials so
as to create a sense of place enjoyed by residents and visitors;
5.   Applies the flexibility of the PRD for creative and imaginative design
that is not always possible under the conventional zoning regulations;
6.   Provides for timeless architecture, landscape, and site plan. Developments
can be modern and distinctive in character, but should not be unusual,
confusing, or unfamiliar so as to become obsolete as times and design
preferences change;
7.   Presents a variety of home styles and sizes;
8.   Preserves the natural scenic qualities of open space in the Village; and
9.   Is respectful and reflective of the development’s immediate neighboring
uses, surroundings and frontages.
C.   Incorporates the natural and built design elements that make the Village
special and include:
1.   Safe and attractive paths and connections that allow individuals of all
ages and abilities to access adjacent areas;
2.   Tree protection, new trees, wooded areas, and open spaces;
3.   Attractive, robust, and naturally presented landscaping;
4.   A variety of architectural styles and home sizes that have thoughtful
design treatment given to all facades;
5.   Efficient roadway and utility design;
6.   Respect for historic preservation, where applicable; and
7.   A multi-generational place that is safe and encourages social
interactions.
SECTION 10-17-1
ILLUSTRATION #1
Examples of Unique and Innovative Design
Consistent With Village Character
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-114.png]
 
SECTION 10-17-1
ILLUSTRATION #2
Example Site Plan Concepts Reflecting PRD Purpose Statements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-116.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
A.   Eligible Areas. No property may be included in a PRD and subject to the
terms of this Chapter unless it is within the areas designated as eligible upon
the following map:
ILLUSTRATION 10-17-2.A
PRD ELIGIBLE AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-118.png]
 
B.   Required. Within the areas designed as eligible in Illustration 10-17-2.A,
this Chapter must be used for any primarily residential development that
involves either (i) six or more acres of land; or (ii) ten or more dwelling
units.
C.   Optional. Within the areas designed as eligible in Illustration 10-17-2.A,
the procedures of this Chapter may be used voluntarily to authorize other
developments, but only where the Village Administrator determines that at least
one of the following criteria apply to the proposed development:
1.   The proposed development will preserve a significant feature of the
natural environment within the Village.
2.   The proposed development will preserve a protected feature designated
pursuant to the Village’s Historic Preservation Regulations codified in Title
9, Chapter 14 of this Code.
3.   The proposed development is adjacent to or across the street from a
previously authorized planned residential development, and the proposed
development would be compatible in character and design with the previously
authorized planned residential development. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
10-17-3: COMMON OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL:
Prior to filing an application, an applicant for a planned residential
development must hold, under common ownership or control, the entire area
proposed to be subject to the planned residential development including,
without limitation: all common areas within buildings; common open space;
landscaping; exterior maintenance areas; and all other exterior aspects of the
development. Any change in ownership during the pendency of an application must
be reported immediately to the Village Administrator, and failure to provide
this updated information is grounds for denial or revocation of any approval
granted. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
10-17-4: USES IN PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
No building or lot in a PRD shall be used for any principal use other than the
following:
A.   Single-family dwellings.
B.   Two-family dwelling.
C.   Townhomes.
D.   Multiple-unit dwellings.
E.   The following nonresidential uses, provided that the use is complementary
to the residential uses in the PRD:
1.   Recreational uses.
2.   Churches and houses of worship.
3.   Schools (provided that they do not have dormitory accommodations).
4.   Cultural or community facilities. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
10-17-5: BULK, OPEN SPACE, PARKING, AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS IN PLANNED
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
All developments in a PRD are subject to the zoning requirements applicable in
the underlying zoning district of the property, unless such requirements
directly conflict with the requirements of this Section, in which case the
requirements of this Section shall control to the extent of the conflict.
A.   Maximum Density: The maximum number of dwelling units in a PRD is
determined by the total size of the proposed development (in acres) multiplied
by the district-specific standards listed below, rounded to the nearest whole
number, except as may be modified in accordance with Section
10-17-8. The number of units of each dwelling type shall be subject to approval
by the Village Board based on a recommendation of the PCZBA and satisfaction of
the standards for Special Uses and PRDs.
TABLE 10-17-5.A
Zoning District Dwelling Units Per Acre
TABLE 10-17-5.A
Zoning District Dwelling Units Per Acre
C-E             0.22
E-1             0.67
E-2             1.00
R-1             2.18
R-2             3.63
R-3             4.58
R-4             5.80
                5.80 for single-family residences;
                21.78 for all other types of residences.
R-5             (R-5 acreage will first be applied to all other types of
                residences at the higher rate, and then any remaining land will
                be applied to single-family residences at the lower rate.)
 
B.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of a principal structure in a PRD shall
be as follows, except as may be modified in accordance with Section
10-17-8:
 
TABLE 10-17-5.B
Zoning District Maximum Height
C-E             40 feet
E-1, E-2        36 feet
R-1, R-2        34 feet
R-3, R-4, R-5   32 feet
 
C.   Open Space and Setbacks:
1.   Perimeter Open Space: An unobstructed yard setback of no less than least
30 feet in depth shall be provided along the perimeter of the PRD, provided
that perimeter open space may be reduced or waived by the Village where it does
not provide additional or necessary screening or impedes integrating the PRD
into adjacent developments. The PRD must provide for ownership and maintenance
of the perimeter open space by an owners’ association or equivalent entity.
2.   Other Than Conventional Lot Design: Where principal dwellings are owned in
condominium or are otherwise surrounded by common areas around individual
dwelling units or buildings (e.g. rather than conventional lots):
a.   All buildings must be located a minimum of 15 feet from other buildings
and structures.
b.   The PRD must address if, and under what circumstances, accessory uses and
structures may be maintained such as fences, patios, decks, driveways,
walkways, and sheds.
3.   Clustering: Clustering of homes is not required, but may be applied as a
design option to, among other things, establish a particular type of
neighborhood layout; define common open space; preserve environmental areas;
create a unique site character; or otherwise incorporate unique site
opportunities. When applied, clustering of homes should:
a.   Avoid inefficient design or roadways or utilities that will unduly
increase maintenance and replacement costs;
b.   Maximize connectivity throughout the development and to adjacent areas for
those traveling by foot, bicycle, or vehicle;
c.   Avoid impacting environmentally sensitive or significant areas;
d.   Not cause adverse impacts between incompatible uses; and
e.   Not otherwise create adverse impacts.
4.   Common Open Space: PRDs shall include Common Open Space that meets all of
the following requirements:
a.   At least 15 percent of the PRD’s site area shall be reserved as Common
Open Space.
b.   The Common Open Space shall be owned and maintained by an owners’
association or equivalent entity.
c.   Except as authorized by the Village Board, Common Open Space intended to
be accessible and used by residents of the PRD must also be accessible and
usable by the public on similar or equal terms.
d.   The Common Open Space shall be maintained with grass, native plantings,
ground covers, trees and shrubs except for those areas occupied by recreational
structures or pathways for pedestrians and bicyclists (paved, gravel, or other
approved materials).
5.   Preserving Environmental Areas: No development shall take place on
existing environmental areas. For the purposes of this Chapter, Environmental
Areas shall be defined as lakes, ponds, and streams; established tree stands,
or savannahs. Preserved environmental areas may be counted toward the required
Common Open Space.
D.   Anti-monotony: PRDs shall be planned and constructed so as to avoid
monotonous design, particularly with regard to single-family dwellings. Single-
family dwellings located on the same block or otherwise generally near one
another shall be designed and constructed to avoid monotony with respect to
roof line, windows, construction materials, color, location and size of doors,
garage orientation, and style of principal entry, and location and orientation
of garage entries. This requirement is not applicable to developments
specifically designed to establish a unified design format for the development.
E.   Connectivity: PRDs shall be designed to facilitate safe and efficient
connectivity internally, as well to the adjacent road system and the Village
generally for all modes of transportation.
F.   Parking: In considering parking requirements for a PRD, the PCZBA may
recommend, and the Village Board may require, more visitor parking than may
otherwise be required by other sections of the Village Code. Visitor parking
shall be in clusters and dispersed throughout the PRD so as to serve the entire
development. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
10-17-6: PUBLIC BENEFIT FOR PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
A.   Public Benefit Defined: For purposes of this Chapter only, “Public
Benefit” means an amenity provided in the form of an improvement, donation or
dedication that is not otherwise required as part of the development process
and that serves the residents of the PRD and the community at large.
B.   Public Benefit Required: In recognition of the impact of PRDs, an
applicant that is granted approval for a PRD is required to provide a Public
Benefit. The type, scale and intent of the Public Benefit shall be (i)
commensurate with all zoning relief requested by the applicant, and (ii)
proportional to the anticipated impact of the proposed PRD on adjacent
properties and land uses, and on the community at large.
C.   Review of Proposed Public Benefit:
1.   The PCZBA shall review all proposed Public Benefits in conjunction with
its review of all proposed PRDs pursuant to this Chapter.
2.   The PCZBA shall not recommend, and the Village Board shall not approve,
any proposed Public Benefit except upon making a finding that the proposed
Public Benefit satisfies the standards set forth in Section 10-17-6.B of this
Chapter.
3.   The PCZBA may recommend, and the Village Board has the right to require,
an alternate Public Benefit or combination of Public Benefits in lieu of, or in
addition to, any Public Benefit proposed by the applicant.
4.   A determination that a proposed Public Benefit satisfies the standards set
forth in Section 10-17-6.B of this Chapter shall not be deemed or interpreted
as obligating the PCZBA or the Village Board to recommend or approve the
associated PRD.
D.   Potential Public Benefits: Public Benefits that may be proposed include,
without limitation:
1.   Age-restricted or age-targeted development for those looking to remain in
or move to the Village.
2.   Additional affordable or middle-income housing in a manner that is
consistent with the Village’s housing goals and policies.
3.   Historic preservation of protected features, as designated pursuant to the
Village’s Historic Preservation Regulations codified in Title 9, Chapter 14 of
this Code.
4.   Recreation, open space, and the preservation of environmental areas to the
extent that: (i) such areas within or near a development are found to be in
excess of what otherwise may be required by this Title; and (ii) any recreation
and open space is made available for use by nearby property owners and the
community as a whole.
5.   Newly established Sustainability Best Management Practices (BMPs) not
already in place or otherwise required by the Village Code to the extent that
such practices are applied throughout the proposed development and enhance
stormwater management beyond what is required by federal, State, or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances through conventional means. Such improvements shall
help to retain, clean, and slow the flow of rainwater. Proposed BMPs may
include rain gardens, bioswales, porous pavement or pavers, green roofs, native
plant materials in or around detention / retention basins, or vegetated filter
strips.
6.   Public art, installed within or near the PRD provided that the public art
is:
a.   Prominently located to maximize enjoyment by the community;
b.   Of a scale appropriate for its location;
c.   Located so as not to present a danger to drivers, pedestrians, bicyclists
or others;
d.   Provided with assurances for ongoing management and maintenance by the
applicant, homeowner’s association or similar entity, or others; and
e.   Found by the Village Board to be in keeping with the requirements and
intent of this Chapter and standards for PRD approval. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-
2022)
10-17-7: PROCEDURE:
A PRD may be granted as a Special Use in accordance with the following
procedures:
ILLUSTRATION 10-17-7
PRD PROCEDURE FLOWCHART
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-120.png]
 
A.   Informal Review: Before submitting an application for a PRD, an applicant
must meet with Village Administrator (or the Administrator’s designee) to
review the proposed development. The applicant shall present the general intent
of the development and receive feedback regarding the extent to which the
proposed development may be responsive to Village plans, policies and codes.
The Village Administrator will describe the Village’s PRD review process. The
informal review does not require the filing of a formal application or fee.
Applicants are advised to provide information to the Village before or during
the informal review that generally describes the proposed land use, property
size, and character of the anticipated development. The informal review and the
feedback provided during the informal review shall not constitute or be deemed
to provide any approvals or commitments from the Village related to the
proposed PRD.
B.   Community Meeting: Following the informal review set forth in Section 10-
17-7.A, the applicant is encouraged, but not required, to hold a community
meeting open to the public to share information about the proposed development.
This step can provide information regarding community insights about the
proposal, which applicants can use to prepare their applications for PRDs. The
community meeting may alternatively be conducted after the preapplication stage
set forth in Section 10-17-7.C.
C.   Preapplication:
1.   Preapplication Meeting: Prior to filing any application for a PRD, an
applicant for a PRD must appear before a joint meeting of the PCZBA and
Architectural Board of Review (ABR) at a workshop to present the general nature
of the proposed development. As part of this workshop meeting, the PCZBA and
ABR may ask questions and share feedback with the applicant. The PCZBA / ABR
members may also provide the applicant with their initial impressions regarding
the extent to which the proposal is or is not consistent with PRD standards,
and the Village’s development goals and policies. The preapplication meeting
and the feedback provided during the preapplication meeting shall not
constitute or be deemed to provide any approvals or commitments from the
Village related to the proposed PRD.
2.   Materials to be Provided for Preapplication Meeting: At least two weeks
prior to the preapplication meeting, the applicant must provide the Village the
following materials:
a.   General Statement: A written statement explaining the character and intent
of the proposed PRD and how it reflects the Village’s Comprehensive Plan and
development goals. The statement must specify any relief to be requested from
the otherwise applicable provisions of this Title.
b.   General Site Information: Data regarding the total acreage of the
development site and number of acres anticipated for individual land uses;
number of dwellings units by type; total square feet of nonresidential
development; presence of any historic features; proposed access points to
nearby roads and utilities; existing easements on the site; and other
information requested by the Village Administrator.
c.   Sketch Plan: A scaled drawing in sketch form showing the anticipated
location of land uses, streets, lots, general site topography, recreation
areas, environmental areas, stormwater detention areas, and other features as
needed to convey the proposed format of the proposed development. The sketch
plan shall also indicate land uses and structures adjacent to the proposed PRD.
d.   Preliminary Elevations: An artist’s renderings of proposed building types
and common area buildings.
e.   Property Survey: A property survey of the site proposed for the PRD.
f.   Proof of Ownership or Interest: Evidence that the applicant owns or
controls the property.
D.   Preliminary Development Plan Approval: A preliminary development plan for
the proposed PRD shall be submitted to the Village Administrator. Only complete
submittals, containing all materials required below unless waived by the
Village Administrator, will be accepted for consideration by the Village and
initiate the preliminary development plan process.
1.   Application Materials to be Provided for Preliminary Development Plan
Consideration: An applicant for a PRD shall submit all of the following
materials below to initiate a public hearing before the PCZBA on a preliminary
development plan for a PRD. The need to provide any of the information in this
Subsection may be waived by the Village Administrator upon finding that such
information is not relevant or additive to the matter being heard, or if such
information is otherwise available in another form complete enough to provide
necessary understanding of the proposed development. The form of submittal and
number of copies to be provided shall be determined by the Village
Administrator.
a.   Application Form: The applicant shall submit a written application on
forms supplied by the Village in a format approved by the Village Attorney.
b.   Payment: The payment of all required application fees.
c.   General Statement: A written statement explaining the character and intent
of the proposed PRD and how it reflects the Village’s Comprehensive Plan and
development goals. This statement shall specify the types of zoning relief
sought in addition to the PRD approval, such as special uses, modifications, or
variations.
d.   Site Survey: A survey prepared by an Illinois licensed land surveyor,
which survey must include the legal description of the property and dimensioned
indication of locations of any existing structures, utilities, roadways,
floodplains, floodway and flood fringe boundaries on the property.
e.   Tree Survey: A survey of existing trees meeting the requirements of
Section
10-11-8.C of the Zoning Regulations.
f.   Quantitative Site Information: Data regarding the total acreage of the
proposed PRD site; number of acres and number of dwellings anticipated for
residential land uses (by use type); the number of parking spaces; the location
and size of any commonly owned structures for the development; any historic
features; and anticipated development phasing.
g.   Preliminary Building Type Schedule: A schedule of each proposed building
model or type; the quantity of each model or type within the development; and
each model’s number of bedrooms, approximate footprint (two-dimensional), and
approximate floor area (three-dimensional). This requirement shall not apply
when the PRD is proposed to include only lots or development sites, not
specific dwellings.
h.   Preliminary Site Plan: Scaled plan drawings showing the location of all
proposed buildings and structures, streets, parking areas, pedestrian walks,
trails, bike paths, permanent open spaces and recreation facilities, preserved
historic features, and topography. Each dwelling unit must be identified as to
type matching the applicant’s building type schedule. The preliminary site plan
shall indicate the: (i) points of ingress and egress to the development; (ii)
utility connection points; (iii) existing and proposed easements; and (iv)
existing easements and structures within 250 feet of the property.
i.   Preliminary Elevations: Artist’s renderings of each proposed building type
and each common area building.
j.   Preliminary Engineering Plan: An engineering plan showing the location and
adequacy of existing and proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water
distribution systems, and stormwater management systems.
k.   Preliminary Landscape Plan: A preliminary landscape plan consistent with
the requirements of this Chapter and identifying which existing trees are to be
preserved or removed.
l.   Response to Standards: A written statement indicating how the proposed
development meets the standards in Sections
10-2C-3.E and
10-17-7.D.3 and, if modifications are sought as part of the PRD approval, the
standards in Section
10-17-7.
m.   Traffic Impact Study: A study showing the anticipated traffic generated by
the proposed development and how it may impact nearby properties and the
existing road system.
n.   Description of Proposed Public Benefit: A description of all Public
Benefits proposed to be provided as part of the PRD in accordance with Section
10-17-6.
o.   Preliminary Plat of Subdivision: A preliminary plat of subdivision that,
except for any requested modifications, meets the requirements of Title 11 of
this Code.
p.   Anticipated Phasing and Construction Sequencing Plan: A narrative
indicating the order in which sections of the proposed project (phases) and
common area structures and buildings will be constructed. The anticipated
timing for such development shall be provided, indicating the year and quarter
each phase of construction is anticipated to be initiated and completed.
q.   Contacts: The names and contact information of professional consultants
working with the applicant on the proposed development.
r.   Ownership Information: The names and addresses of all present and proposed
owners of the project and the property. If the applicant is a trust, the names
and addresses of the beneficiaries. If the applicant has shareholders, the
applicant shall provide the name and addresses of all shareholders that have
more than a five percent of the shares in the applicant.
s.   Additional Items: Other Items as may be required by the Village
Administrator.
2.   Design Review: Prior to the Public Hearing on the preliminary development
plan, the Architectural Board of Review (ABR) shall hold a meeting and conduct
a Design Review of the proposed PRD. (This PRD-specific process is distinct
from the Design Review process set forth in Section
10-2C-6.) The ABR findings and recommendations shall be provided to the PCZBA
for its review and consideration during preliminary development plan
Consideration. As determined by the PCZBA, findings and recommendations of the
ABR may be incorporated into the PCZBA recommendations provided to the Village
Board.
The ABR shall consider the development elements listed below in subsections a.
through e. regarding whether the development elements sufficiently incorporate
and advance the PRD purpose statements provided in Section
10-17-1 of this Code:
a.   The location, orientation and architecture of common area structures and
buildings.
b.   Proposed streetscaping along roadways.
c.   Common area landscaping.
d.   Fencing or other screening along the perimeter of the PRD.
e.   The Public Benefits proposed by the applicant pursuant to Section
10-17-6 of this Code.
3.   Standards for Preliminary Development Plan Approval: The PCZBA may not
recommend that the Village Board approve, and the Village Board shall not
approve, a preliminary development plan for a PRD unless the preliminary
development plan meets the standards for a special use set forth in
10-2C-3.E of this Code and all of the following standards:
a.   The uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and potential
surrounding uses.
b.   The proposed development is consistent with the Village of Lake Bluff
Comprehensive Plan.
c.   Existing and proposed streets are suitable and adequate to carry
anticipated traffic within the proposed development and in the vicinity of the
proposed development.
d.   Existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the proposed
development.
e.   The proposed development, and each phase of the proposed development if
construction will be in stages, will contain the required parking spaces,
landscape and utility areas necessary for creating and sustaining a desirable
and suitable environment.
f.   The preliminary development plan complies with all other criteria and the
stated purpose set forth in this Chapter, except that a preliminary development
plan may be approved conditioned upon the passage of a future map or text
amendment (e.g. rezoning) prior to, or concurrent with, the adoption of a final
development plan.
4.   PCZBA Hearing: The application and proposed preliminary development plan
shall be reviewed at a public hearing by the PCZBA. The PCZBA shall hold a
public hearing on the application pursuant to the provisions of this Title,
following publication of the required legal notice, within 90 days after the
Village Administrator determines that the application is complete or such later
meeting date as has been requested by and granted to the applicant.
5.   Recommendation by the PCZBA: Following the required public hearing, the
PCZBA shall prepare its findings on the application for approval of the
preliminary development plan and any other zoning relief applied for by the
applicant and forward its recommendations to the Village Board. The PCZBA’s
findings shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of
the application.
6.   Decision by the Village Board: Upon receipt of the PCZBA’s findings and
recommendation, the Village Board shall within 60 days initiate consideration
of the application for approval of the preliminary development plan. The
Village Board may approve the preliminary development plan; remand the
application to the PCZBA or Architectural Board of Review, or both, for further
evaluation; or deny the preliminary development plan. Approval of a preliminary
development plan does not constitute an approval or commitment from the Village
to approve a final development plan for a PRD. Approval of the preliminary
development plan shall be by resolution duly adopted.
7.   Effect of Preliminary Development Plan Approval: Upon approval by the
Village Board of the preliminary Development plan, the applicant may apply for
final development plan approval for the PRD.
E.   Final Development Plan Approval: A final development plan for a proposed
PRD shall be submitted to the Village Administrator for consideration by the
PCZBA at a public hearing and then by the Village Board. A complete application
for final development plan approval must be submitted to the Village
Administrator within one year of the Village’s Board’s approval of a
preliminary development plan approval unless the Village Board, by resolution
duly adopted, grants an extension to the applicant prior to the expiration of
the one-year deadline, which extension may not exceed one year.
1.   Application Materials to be Provided for Final Development Plan
Consideration: Only complete submittals, containing all materials required
below, unless waived by the Village Administrator, will be accepted for
consideration by the Village and initiate the final development plan review
process.
a.   Other Zoning Relief Applications: If applicable, complete applications for
any map amendments (e.g. rezoning), text amendments, or other zoning relief
necessary to complete the PRD proposed by the final development plan. The
consideration of other necessary zoning relief shall be coordinated with the
consideration of the final development plan.
b.   Final Building Type Schedule: A schedule of each proposed building model
or type; the quantity of each model or type within the development; and each
model’s number of bedrooms, approximate footprint (two-dimensional), and
approximate floor area (three-dimensional).
c.   Final Site Plan: A scaled plan drawings, in final form, showing the
location of all proposed buildings and structures, streets, parking areas,
pedestrian walks, trails, bike paths, permanent open spaces and recreation
facilities, preserved historic features, and topography. Each dwelling unit
must be identified as to type matching the applicant’s building type schedule.
The final site plan shall indicate the: (i) points of ingress and egress to the
development; (ii) utility connection points; (iii) existing and proposed
easements; and (iv) existing easements and structures within 250 feet of the
property.
d.   Final Engineering Plan: A revised version of the preliminary engineering
plan in compliance with all requirements of the Village Code.
e.   Tree Survey: A survey of existing trees meeting the requirements of
Section
10-11-8.C of the Zoning Regulations.
f.   Final Landscape Plans: A revised version of the Preliminary Landscape Plan
consistent with the requirements of this Chapter and identifying which existing
trees are to be preserved or removed.
g.   Final Plat of Subdivision: A final plat of subdivision that, except for
any requested modifications, meets the requirements of Title 11 of this Code.
h.   Final Elevations: Artist’s renderings of all building types and common
area buildings.
i.   Quantitative Site Information: Data regarding total acreage of the
proposed PRD site; number of acres and number of dwellings for residential land
uses (by use type);number of parking spaces; the location and size of any
commonly owned structures for the development; and any historic features.
j.   Phasing and Construction Sequencing Plan: A graphic and supporting
narrative indicating the order in which sections of the proposed project
(phases) and common area structures and buildings will be constructed. The
anticipated timing for such development shall be provided, indicating the year
and quarter each construction phase is anticipated to be initiated and
completed.
k.   Summary of Changes from the Approved Preliminary Development Plan: A
statement summarizing all changes that have been made, or have occurred, in any
document, plan, data, or information previously submitted, together with a
revised copy of any such document, plan, or data; and the statement shall
explain how the final development plan remains in substantial conformance with
the approved preliminary development plan.
l.   Additional Items: Other Items as may be directed by the Village
Administrator.
m.   A Declaration of Covenants (if necessary): A declaration of covenants that
establishes an owners’ association or equivalent entity, for review and
approval by the Village Attorney. The declaration of covenants shall include,
without limitation, all of the following provisions:
(1)   A requirement that the developer of the PRD convey the private streets
and roads, the detention and retention facilities, and the common areas to the
owners’ association or equivalent entity.
(2)   A requirement that the owners’ association or equivalent entity provide
for the maintenance and repair of all private streets and roads, detention and
retention ponds, and common areas, and any and all appurtenances thereto, all
in accordance with (i) this Code, and (ii) any development agreement entered
into by and between the applicant and the Village.
(3)   If the owners’ association or equivalent entity fails to maintain and
repair all private streets or roads, detention or retention ponds and common
areas, the Village, or its designated agent, shall have the right, but not the
obligation, to (i) enter upon the property to maintain and repair such items,
and (ii) place a lien upon the property until the owners’ association or
equivalent entity has paid the cost thereof.
(4)   A statement of understanding that the Village is under no obligation to,
and will not be expected to, assume ownership or maintenance of private
streets, utilities or other improvements.
(5)   The owners’ association or equivalent entity is responsible for casualty
and liability insurance and real estate taxes for the Common Area.
(6)   If the owners’ association or equivalent entity is to rely on fees from
owners of the dwelling units, that the owners of each dwelling unit must pay
their pro rata share of all costs and expenses incurred by the owners’
association or equivalent entity by means of assessments to be levied by the
owners’ association or equivalent entity that meet the requirements for
becoming a lien, foreclosable in the same manner as statutory mortgage liens,
on each such member’s fee interest in the Property in accordance with the
statutes of the State of Illinois. The owners’ association or equivalent entity
will have the right to adjust the assessment to meet changing needs. The
membership vote required to authorize such an adjustment may not be fixed at
more than 51% of the members voting on the issue, unless otherwise required by
State law.
(7)   A statement that the declaration of covenants shall run with the subject
property and is binding upon all owners of any lot, dwelling unit, or any other
portion of the property.
2.   PCZBA Hearing: The application and proposed final development plan shall
be reviewed at a public hearing by the PCZBA. The PCZBA shall hold a public
hearing on the application pursuant to the provisions of this Title, following
publication of the required legal notice, within 60 days after the Village
Administrator determines that the application is complete or such later meeting
date as has been requested by and granted to the applicant.
3.   Recommendation by the PCZBA: Following a public hearing, the PCZBA shall
prepare its findings on the application for approval of the final development
plan and any other zoning relief applied for by the applicant and forward its
recommendations to the Village Board. Such findings shall recommend approval,
approval with conditions, or disapproval of the application and the reasons for
the finding. In making its findings and recommendation, the PCZBA shall
consider whether the application is in substantial conformance with approved
preliminary development plan for the PRD. For purposes of this subsection,
“substantial conformance” means that the final development plan is not
inconsistent with the approved preliminary development plan in regard to all of
the following:
a.   The type of residential land use(s) proposed.
b.   The proportion of the development (based on number of dwelling units)
devoted to each type of proposed residential use differs by no more than five
percent.
c.   The common open spaces have not been decreased by more five percent.
d.   The construction material is predominantly equivalent to what was included
in the approved preliminary development plan.
e.   The location of common buildings and structures is consistent to what was
included in the approved preliminary development plan.
f.   The location of roads, sidewalks, and paths are comparable to what was
included in the approved preliminary development plan.
g.   The total bedroom count (if provided in the approved preliminary
development plan) has not increased by more than five percent.
h.   The phasing plan (if provided in the approved preliminary development
plan) is consistent with what was included in the approved preliminary
development plan.
4.   Decision of Village Board: Upon receipt of the PCZBA’s findings and
recommendation, the Village Board shall within 60 days initiate consideration
of the application for approval of the final development plan based on whether
the final development plan is in substantial conformance with the approved
preliminary development plan. For purposes of this subsection, “substantial
conformance” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 10-17-7.E.3 of
this Code. The Village Board may approve the final development plan; remand the
application to the PCZBA, the Architectural Board of Review, or both, for
further evaluation; or deny the final development plan. Approval of the final
development plan shall be by ordinance duly adopted.
5.   Conditions: The PCZBA and the ABR may recommend, and the Village Board may
condition its approval of any PRD on such matters as the Board may find
necessary to prevent or minimize any possible adverse effects of the proposed
PRD, or to ensure its compatibility with surrounding uses and development and
its consistency with the general purposes, goals, and objectives of this code,
the village’s subdivision code, and the village’s comprehensive plan. The
conditions will be expressly set forth in the ordinance granting the PRD.
Violation of any such condition or limitation shall be a violation of this code
and shall constitute grounds for revocation of all approvals granted for the
PRD.
6.   Effect of Final Development Plan Approval: If a PRD is approved, the final
development plan and the ordinance approving the PRD will constitute the
regulations applicable to the subject property and shall govern to the extent
of any conflict with the provisions of this Title. No use or development not
authorized or consistent with the approved final development plan will be
permitted within the PRD except as the final development plan may be amended in
accordance with Section
10-17-10 of this Code. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-
2022)
10-17-8: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY REGULATIONS:
A.   Authority: Subject to the standards and limitations in this Section, the
Village Board, as part of an approval of any PRD, may modify any provision of
this Title, including this Chapter, or Title 11 of this Code, as they apply to
a PRD, subject to the limitations in this Section.
B.   Standards: No modification may be approved unless the Board of Trustees
finds that the proposed PRD:
1.   Will achieve the purposes for which a PRD may be approved pursuant to
Section
10-17-1 of this Chapter;
2.   Will not violate the general purposes, goals, and objectives of this Code
and the Village’s Comprehensive Plan; and,
3.   Will result in a development providing Public Benefits to the Village that
are not otherwise required under this Code, as described in Section
10-17-6.
C.   Height Modifications: In addition to the standards set forth in Section
10-17-8.B, the Village Board will also consider the following additional
standards prior to granting a modification to the maximum building height
regulations:
1.   Where the structure is located on the site and its proximity to nearby
structures or uses;
2.   The overall size of the PRD development, given that allowing additional
building height, particularly for multiple-unit dwelling buildings on a small
site, may be more impactful to adjacent properties; and
3.   The overall mix of dwelling types in the development.
D.   Other Limitations: In granting any modification pursuant to this Section,
the Village Board shall in no event:
1.    Make less stringent any performance standard relating to noise,
vibration, smoke and particulate matter, odors, toxic and noxious matter,
radiation hazards, fire and explosive hazards, or heat or glare, that is
applicable in the district in which the development is to be located or
applicable to the particular use by reason of the regulations applicable in any
district in which it might be located; or
2.    Allow for a density that exceeds the total number of units allowed for
the PRD (as set forth in Section
10-17-5.A) unless all of the following standards are met:
a.   The proposed development meets standards for approval of a PRD set forth
in Section
10-17-7.D.3.
b.   The proposed development meets standards for a special use set forth in
Section
10-2C-3.E.
c.   The total number of dwelling units does not exceed 125 percent of the
total dwelling units allowed in Section
10-17-5.A, rounded to the nearest whole dwelling unit.
3.   Allow the height of a single-family dwelling to exceed 40 feet. (Ord.
2022-30, 10-24-2022; amd. Ord. 2022-38, 12-12-2022)
10-17-9: CONCURRENT REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY AND FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An applicant for a PRD of 10 or fewer dwelling units may request concurrent
review of preliminary and final development plans. This procedural request may
be authorized by the Village Administrator upon finding that all information
and materials for Final Plans have been submitted as required by this Article
and are fully complete. If concurrent review is authorized, the process shall
include all of the procedures set forth in Section
10-17-7 for preliminary development plan approval, and all materials required
in for preliminary and final development plan approval shall be provided prior
to scheduling a public hearing. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
10-17-10: AMENDMENTS:
A.   Standards for Amendments. An amendment to a PRD may modify any aspect of
the PRD approval, including any modifications under Section
10-17-8. No amendment to a PRD, pursuant to this Section, shall be approved
except upon finding that:
1.   The amendment does not change the concept or intent of the PRD;
2.   The amendment will not diminish any Public Benefit provided to secure
approval of a PRD, except to the extent that an equal or greater Public Benefit
is provided as a result of the amendment; and,
3.   The PRD, subsequent to amendment, will continue to satisfy all applicable
standards under this Chapter.
B.   After Preliminary Plan Approval. An approved preliminary plan may not be
amended. Any discrepancy between a preliminary plan and final plan must either
be (i) determined by the Village to be in “substantial conformance,” as
described in
10-17-7; or (ii) resolved by seeking a new preliminary plan approval, which
requires the same approval process, procedures, and limitations as an initial
application. A prior approval is in no way a guarantee, obligation, or
precedent supporting the approval of a subsequent PRD proposal.
C.   After Final Plan Approval. The following procedures apply after a Final
Plan is approved but prior to substantial completion of all phases of the
development:
1.   Major Changes. Any change that would render the resulting development out
of “substantial conformance” with the Final Plan, as that term is defined in
10-17-7.E.3, must be resolved by seeking a new PRD approval subject to the same
approval process, procedures, and limitations as an initial application. A
prior approval is in no way a guarantee, obligation, or precedent supporting
the approval of a subsequent PRD proposal.
2.   Minor Changes: All other changes are “Minor Changes” for the purposes of
this Section. An applicant may present a proposed Minor Change to an approved
PRD to the Village Administrator for approval. The Village Administrator may
approve the proposed Minor Change without further proceedings, provided that
the Village Administrator finds that the proposed change does not change the
concept or intent of the PRD. The Village Administrator, in the Administrator’s
sole discretion, may also refer the proposed Minor Change to the PCZBA for
review and approval without a public hearing, which approval the PCZBA may
grant provided that the PCZBA finds that the proposed change does not change
the concept or intent of the PRD.
D.   After Substantial Completion. This subsection applies after substantial
completion of all phases of the development, including the transfer of
responsibility to an owners’ association and the actual occupancy of the PRD.
This Section is intended only to allow for the adaptation of PRDs to subsequent
changes in conditions and regulations as may occur throughout the indefinite
lifespan of a PRD, and not to allow for the extension of special privileges or
the diminishment of any of the obligations of an owner or owners’ association.
After substantial completion, an amendment may only be initiated by (i) the
Village; (ii) the written request of all real property owners within the PRD;
or (iii) an owners’ association, but only as specifically authorized to do so
by the PRD’s declaration of covenants.
An amendment to a substantially complete PRD shall be subject to the same
public notice and process as is applicable to amendments to a special use
permit, except that the standards provided in Subsection A must also be met. An
amendment to a substantially complete PRD may effect additional modifications
under Section
10-17-8. (Ord. 2022-30, 10-24-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Application Of Provisions
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Validity
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is deemed essential to establish minimum standards for the design and
development of all new subdivisions so that existing developments will be
protected and so that adequate provisions are made for public utilities and
other public requirements and to improve health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-1-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
A.   The provisions of this title shall be applicable to all subdivisions in
the village, and as to all subdivisions within any unincorporated area lying
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the village,
this title shall be applicable to all regulations contained therein to the
extent permitted by law and the statutes of the state in effect from time to
time. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
B.   The provisions of this title shall also apply to all planned developments
whether residential, commercial, or otherwise in nature, and to any and all
other developments whether a subdivision is required or not under the laws,
statutes, ordinances or regulations of the village, and regardless of whether
the same is labeled a subdivision or not, it being the intent of this title to
apply to all types of development, both within the village and to areas lying
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits the village.
(Ord., 3-11-1980; amd. 2009 Code)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets
or highways and/or the exterior boundaries of the subdivision.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: Shall be shown on all lots. Such building lines shall
not be less than required by the zoning ordinance.
COLLECTOR STREETS: Those which carry traffic from minor streets to major system
of arterial streets and highways, including the principal entrance streets of a
development and streets for the circulation within such a development.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short, minor street, ending in a turnaround, designed and
intended as a permanent terminus.
EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner, of the use for a specific purpose, of
a strip of land by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or
persons; and within the limits of which the owner of the fee shall not erect
any permanent structures interfering in any way with such easement, but shall
have the right to make any other use of the land subject to such easement which
is not inconsistent with the rights of the grantee. Public utilities shall have
the right to trim or remove existing trees which interfere with the use of such
easements.
ENGINEER: A registered professional engineer authorized to practice engineering
as defined by the registration act of the state of Illinois. See also
definition of Village Engineer.
LAKE BLUFF DATUM FOR GRADES: A base or datum for the grades and levels of the
village be, and the same is hereby fixed, at a point one hundred two and six-
tenths feet (102.6') below a cut on the top of the stone water table at the
southeast corner of the village hall. The base or datum hereby established
shall be known as "the datum of the village of Lake Bluff".
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for building
development.
MINOR STREET: A street used or that will be used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
PERFORMANCE BOND: A surety bond or cash deposit made out to the village in an
amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are required by this
title, and said surety bond or cash deposit being legally sufficient to ensure
to the village that said improvements will be constructed in accordance with
this title.
PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of the village.
PLAT OF SUBDIVISION: A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plat of
the subdivision is presented and which he submits for approval and intends in
final form to record.
RESUBDIVISION: The further subdivision of a lot or parcel of land that has been
previously subdivided.
ROADWAY: That portion of the street available for vehicular traffic, and where
curbs are laid, that portion from back to back of curbs.
STREET RIGHT OF WAY: The overall width of the dedicated street to include the
parkway and the roadway, extending from lot or parcel line on either side of
the roadway.
SUBDIVISION: Is and shall include any change, division, resubdivision or
rearrangement of any piece or parcel of land, block, lot or sublot, or any part
thereof, into two (2) or more lots or parcels of land, for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development; or any
change in existing street lines or public easement, or if a new street is
involved any division of land.
SURVEYOR: A professional surveyor authorized to practice land surveying and
registered for such work by the state of Illinois.
THOROUGHFARE: A street with a considerable degree of continuity and serving as
a traffic artery for intercommunication between areas of concentrated use,
including, but not limited to, state, county and major township highways.
VILLAGE BOARD: The village board of trustees and its president.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: A qualified civil engineer registered in the state of
Illinois, appointed by the village board of trustees to perform the functions
of village engineer during a term of office or for a particular project. (Ord.,
4-11-1978)
11-1-4: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or void, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this title. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Recording Of Subdivision Required; On File
11-2-2: Village Funding Restriction
11-2-3: Building Permits
11-2-4: Variations
11-2-5: Fees
11-2-6: Exemptions
11-2-7: Penalty
11-2-1: RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION REQUIRED; ON FILE:
A.   No plat of any subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the
village or within any unincorporated area lying within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of such corporate limits shall be recorded in the county recorder's
office or have any validity until it shall have been approved as herein
described.
B.   After the final plat has been recorded, it shall be returned to the
village clerk and shall be kept on file by said clerk for the use and benefit
of the village. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-2-2: VILLAGE FUNDING RESTRICTION:
The village shall not permit any public improvements, over which it has any
control, to be made or any money expended for improvements in any area that has
been subdivided or upon any street that has been platted after the effective
date hereof, unless such subdivision or street has been approved in accordance
with the provisions contained herein. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-2-3: BUILDING PERMITS:
No building permits shall be issued until the final approved plat is recorded
in the office of the county recorder of deeds. In addition, building permits
shall not be issued until any and all applications and permits related to
sewage or utilities are approved by the appropriate regulatory governmental
agency. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-2-4: VARIATIONS:
The plan commission may recommend variations from these requirements in
specific cases which do not affect the general plan or the spirit of this
title. All such variations recommended shall be communicated to the village
board with reasons therefor, before final consideration of the plat by said
board. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-2-5: FEES:
The fee for the processing of a tentative plat and final plat shall be as set
out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "development fees". (Ord., 4-11-1978;
amd. 2009 Code)
11-2-6: EXEMPTIONS:
A.   Parcels Less Than One Acre: An owner desiring to divide a lot or parcel of
land of less than one acre into not more than two (2) parcels for purpose of
sale or exchange, in any recorded subdivision which does not involve any
streets or easements or access, may submit application to divide for
consideration of the village board, provided:
1.   The division of the lot or parcel does not create a lot or parcel smaller
in area than is required by the Lake Bluff zoning ordinance.
2.   The division of the lot or parcel does not create a nonconforming
condition under village ordinances, including, but not limited to, existing
building setbacks, side yards, rear yards and percent of lot or parcel occupied
by buildings.
3.   A correct survey by a professional land surveyor is submitted, showing
dimensions and square footage of lots or parcels to be created, and location of
existing buildings, if any, on the lots or parcels. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
B.   Contiguous Parcels: The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners
of adjoining and contiguous land, with the approval of the village board, is
exempt from the provisions of this title, provided: (Ord., 4-11-1978; amd. 2009
Code)
1.   The sale or exchange does not create additional lots or reduce any lot to
an area smaller than required by the Lake Bluff zoning ordinance.
2.   The sale or exchange of the parcel does not create a nonconforming
condition under village ordinances, including, but not limited to, existing
building setbacks, side yards, rear yards and percent of lot or parcel occupied
by buildings.
3.   A correct survey by a professional surveyor is submitted showing
dimensions and new square footage of said lots or parcels involved and location
of existing buildings, if any, on said lots and parcels.
C.   Parcels Less Than Five Acres With Improvements:
1.   Whenever owner(s) proposes a subdivision of a tract of land of less than
five (5) acres, and public improvements such as streets, utilities and storm
drainage have previously been installed, and such tract is to be divided into
lots fronting on such street, the plan commission may authorize the submission
of a sketch plat. A sketch plat is intended to allow the subdivider to
informally discuss the subdividing of a less complicated subdivision.
2.   The sketch plat, as a minimum, must show the location of the proposed
subdivision in relation to the surrounding area and existing manmade features
such as railroads, streets, highways, alleys, drainage ditches and existing
buildings. Proposed lots shall be platted with dimensions and square footage
shown. Additionally, natural features such as lakes, creeks and topography
should be shown.
3.   The sketch plat, when authorized, must be submitted to the plan commission
in eleven (11) copies. The plan commission may, at their discretion, require
the subdivider to provide copies of the sketch plats to the village board,
school district and park district for comment.
4.   If the developer decides to further pursue subdivision, a tentative plat
must be submitted for approval of the plan commission and village board in
conformance with this title. However, the requirements for submitting plans and
specifications for public improvements can be waived by the plan commission and
village board, provided such facilities are deemed adequate. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
D.   Parcels Outside Village Limits: The village board may, by resolution duly
adopted, waive any substantive or procedural requirement of this title as it
applies to any subdivision or resubdivision located, in whole or in part,
outside of the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 94-8, 3-28-1994)
11-2-7: PENALTY:
For each and every violation of the provisions of this title, the owner,
subdivider, agent, or contractor of a premises where such violation has been
committed or shall exist, or who commits, takes part in, or assists in such
violation, shall, for each and every violation and for each and every day or
part thereof that such violation continues, be subject to a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than the maximum provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 4-11-1978; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Tentative Plat
11-3-2: Final Plat
11-3-1: TENTATIVE PLAT:
A.   Submission: Whenever the owner of any tract or parcel of land within the
corporate limits of the village, or within any unincorporated area lying within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the village, wishes to
subdivide or plat the same, the owner shall submit a letter of application with
a tentative plat of said subdivision and related materials in eleven (11)
copies to the board of trustees, village of Lake Bluff - attention: village
administrator. The following pertinent guidelines are provided:
1.   Tentative plat content requirements and checklist: See section
11-5-1 of this title.
2.   Tentative plat sketch: See section
11-5-2 of this title.
3.   Subdivision design standards: See section
11-5-3 of this title.
4.   Public improvements: See section
11-5-4 of this title.
5.   Subdivider dedication and donations: See chapter 4 of this title.
B.   Review By Village Officials:
1.   The village administrator stall immediately refer copies of the tentative
plat and supporting material to the plan commission, the village engineer and
village attorney, with one copy placed on file at the village hall.
2.   The village engineer shall carefully examine the plat as to compliance
with design standards, public improvement requirements and good engineering
practices.
3.   The village attorney shall review all legal requirements. Both village
engineer and attorney shall submit findings to the plan commission within
fifteen (15) days.
C.   Plan Commission Meeting:
1.   Upon receipt of the tentative plat by the plan commission, the chairman
shall, within thirty (30) days, call a meeting of said plan commission.
2.   The plan commission shall study the tentative plat, the village engineer
and village attorney reports, and other material for conformity with this title
and other ordinances of the village, and the plat's consistency with the
official village plan. The commission may confer with the subdivider on changes
deemed advisable and the kind and extent of improvements. Lands subject to
flooding and land deemed to be topographically unsuitable shall not be
subdivided for any purpose if the subdivision will result in any increased
danger to health, life or property, or aggravate erosion or flood hazard. The
plan commission shall not approve the subdivision of land if, upon adequate
investigation conducted by the plan commission, with the assistance of the
village engineer and village attorney, it has been determined by the plan
commission that in the best interest of the public the site is not suitable for
subdivision and development of the kind proposed, and such unsuitability is
concurred by the village board.
D.   Changes; Approval Or Disapproval:
1.   The subdivider may make changes as are specified or required by the plan
commission.
2.   If the plan commission has approved the tentative plat, the following
certificate shall be stamped or lettered upon the plat and signed by the
chairman of the plan commission:
Tentative approval by the Plan Commission of the Village of Lake Bluff, Lake
County, Illinois this                    day of                   , A.D.
20        .
   Signed    
   Chairman, Plan Commission
3.   Upon completion of the above certificate, the plan commission shall
transmit the tentative plat, a copy of the completed checklist and accompanying
material to the village board, conveying to the board such information
concerning said plat as deemed essential. The plan commission shall call to the
attention of the village board all variances (if any) recommended by the
commission and giving the reasons therefor.
4.   If the tentative plat is disapproved by the plan commission, the plan
commission shall forward said plat, a copy of the checklist and all related
materials to the village board, along with their recommendations for
disapproval, and citing therein reason(s) therefor.
E.   Village Board Action:
1.   Upon receipt of the approved or disapproved tentative plat and
accompanying information and related material from the plan commission, the
village board shall review plan commission recommendations. If said tentative
plat is found to conform to all requirements or unsatisfied requirements are
waived, the said village board shall tentatively approve said tentative plat
and shall certify said action by stamping or lettering on said plat the
following certificate and authorize village president and clerk to sign same:
Tentative approval by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Lake Bluff, Lake
County, Illinois this                    day of                   , A.D.
20        .
   Signed    
   Village President
ATTEST:
Village Clerk
2.   When the village board of trustees has given tentative approval to a plat,
one copy shall be provided to the subdivider; one copy shall be forwarded to
the chairman of the plan commission; two (2) copies filed for record in the
office of the village clerk; one copy to the village attorney; and one copy to
the village engineer.
3.   If the village board of trustees does not approve the plat, they shall
indicate such changes as they deem necessary in order that it may conform to
village board requirements, this title and other pertinent ordinances of the
village, and return same, along with a copy of the completed checklist, to the
plan commission for further consideration.
4.   Upon final tentative approval by the plan commission, the tentative plat
checklist and all related material shall be resubmitted to the president of the
board of trustees. If the president of the village board, with the advice and
agreement of the village attorney and village engineer, is satisfied that all
changes to the plat requested by the village board have been made, he shall
execute the tentative plat certificate, as attested by the village clerk, and
cause distribution to be made to the subdivider, the chairman of the plan
commission, the village attorney, village engineer and the official village
clerk repository. However, if all changes to the plat requested by the village
board have not been made, the tentative plat shall be the subject of further
village board agenda action. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-3-2: FINAL PLAT:
A.   Compliance With Tentative Plat: When a tentative plat has received
tentative approval by the village board, the subdivider may cause to be
prepared a final plat of subdivision. The final plat shall be in strict
accordance with the approved tentative plat.
B.   Time Limit For Final Application: Application for final approval of a plat
shall be made not later than one year after preliminary approval has been
granted.
C.   Submission; Specifications And Required Information: The final plat shall
be submitted to the village board of trustees, village of Lake Bluff -
attention: village administrator. The final plat shall be submitted on tracing
cloth, along with eleven (11) blueprints, as well as eleven (11) copies of
supporting documents. The final plat must be accompanied by three (3) complete
sets of plans and specifications providing for all proposed and required public
improvements to be made to the subdivision and other related accompanying
material as required by this title, the village board, plan commission and any
other board, commission or governmental agency having jurisdiction. For
convenience, the following guidelines are provided:
1.   Final plat content requirements and checklist: See section
11-5-5 of this title.
2.   Subdivision design standards: See section
11-5-3 of this title.
3.   Public improvements: See section
11-5-4 of this title.
4.   Subdivider dedications and donations: See chapter 4 of this title.
5.   Final plat sketch: See section
11-5-6 of this title.
D.   Review By Village Officials:
1.   The village administrator, upon receipt, shall immediately refer prints of
the final plat with supporting documents, eight (8) each to the plan
commission, one set each to the village attorney and village engineer, and one
set shall be maintained on file at village hall.
2.   The village engineer shall carefully examine said plat for conformity with
the tentative plat, village standards and specifications and good engineering
practices, to include review and recommendations as concerns changes to the
final plat, the subdivider engineer's estimate of public improvement costs, as
well as plans and specifications, as deemed appropriate.
3.   The village attorney shall review the final plat and accompanying material
for conformance with village ordinances and to ensure all legal requirements
are met. Both the village engineer and village attorney shall submit their
recommendations and comments to the plan commission within twenty one (21)
days.
E.   Plan Commission Meeting:
1.   Upon receipt of the final plat and accompanying material by the plan
commission, the chairman shall, within thirty (30) days, call a meeting of said
plan commission.
2.   The plan commission shall review the final plat for conformity with
village ordinances and the approved tentative plat and requirements stipulated
by the village board. The plan commission shall give consideration to the
comments and recommendations of the village engineer and village attorney
concerning the final plat and accompanying material. The commission may confer
with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable.
3.   The plan commission may approve variations from these requirements in
specific cases which do not affect the general plan, or the spirit of this
title. All such variations shall be communicated to the village board, with the
reasons therefor, before final approval consideration of the plat by the
village board.
F.   Changes; Approval Or Disapproval:
1.   The subdivider may make such changes to the final plat as are specified or
required by the plan commission.
2.   If the plan commission has approved the final plat, the following
certificate shall be stamped or lettered upon said plat and signed by the
chairman of the plan commission:
Approved by the Plan Commission of the Village of Lake Bluff, Lake County,
Illinois this                    day of                   , A.D. 20        .
   Signed    
   Chairman, Plan Commission
3.   Upon completion of the above certificate, the plan commission shall
transmit the final plat, a copy of the checklist and accompanying material to
the village board, conveying to said board such information concerning said
plat as deemed essential. The plan commission shall call to the attention of
the village board all variances (if any) recommended by the commission, giving
their reasons for recommending same.
4.   If the final plat is disapproved by the plan commission, the plan
commission shall forward said plat, a copy of the checklist and all related
materials to the village board along with their recommendation for disapproval,
citing therein reason(s) for said disapproval.
G.   Village Board Action:
1.   Upon receipt of the final plat and accompanying material from the plan
commission, the village board shall review plan commission recommendations and
consider final approval of said plat and related documents. If said final plat
is found to conform to all requirements or unsatisfied requirements are waived,
the village board shall approve said final plat and authorize and direct the
president and village clerk to sign the following certificate of approval:
Approved and accepted by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Lake Bluff, Lake County, Illinois this                    day of
                  , A.D. 20        .
   Signed    
   Village President
(Seal)
ATTEST:
Village Clerk
2.   If the village board disapproves the final plat, said board shall cause
the subdivider to be notified of such disapproval. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC OPEN SPACES; SCHOOLS AND CIVIC CONTRIBUTIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose
11-4-2: Definition Of Bedroom
11-4-3: Application Of Provisions
11-4-4: Criteria And Procedures
11-4-5: Estimated Population Table
11-4-1: PURPOSE:
As a condition of final approval pursuant to this title and the village zoning
regulations, any subdivision, resubdivision, or planned residential development
that results in a net increase of undeveloped single-family lots, as defined by
the village zoning regulations, or the approval of building plans for multi-
family housing project(s) that result in a net increase of total dwelling
units, as defined by the village zoning regulations, each developer,
subdivider, or owner, as the case may be (the "developer"), shall dedicate land
for municipal, park and recreational, school, and library sites to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or shall make
cash contributions in lieu of actual land dedications, or a combination of
both, at the option of the village, in accordance with the criteria and formula
contained herein. (Ord. 95-31, 10-9-1995)
11-4-2: DEFINITION OF BEDROOM:
For the purpose of this chapter, "bedroom" shall mean any room containing a
closet, which is suitable to be used, or is used regularly as a sleeping area
and sharing a common hallway with or adjoining at least a three-quarter (3/4)
bath, containing bathing or showering facilities. Rooms containing closets,
such as foyers, laundry rooms, mud rooms, and hallways, shall not be considered
"bedrooms". (Ord. 95-31, 10-9-1995)
11-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
A.   To the extent permitted by law, the provisions of this chapter shall be
applicable to all subdivisions, resubdivisions, planned residential
developments, and annexations that result in a net increase of undeveloped
single-family lots, as defined by the village zoning regulations, or the
approval of building plans for multi-family housing project(s) that result in a
net increase of total dwelling units, as defined by the village zoning
regulations: 1) within the village; and 2) within one and one- half (11/2)
miles of the village and outside its corporate limits so far as such
extraterritorial requirements relate to contributions for the respective school
and park districts in which said land is located.
B.   The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof required by
this chapter shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of any
land to the village, and provisions therefor shall be incorporated into any
preannexation agreement governing such land. The decision to require such
dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof rests solely with the
village board of trustees.
C.   In all instances where the developer of any property enters into an
agreement relative to donation of cash or property, or a combination thereof,
with any donee governing agency pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the
terms and conditions therefor shall be approved by the village board of
trustees. Under no circumstances shall any modification require a greater
contribution than otherwise provided for herein. (Ord. 95-31, 10-9-1995)
11-4-4: CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES:
A.   Criteria For Requiring Municipal Land Dedication:
1.   Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed development shall
bear directly upon the amount of land required for dedication as determined by
the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit model created by
the Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.,
latest edition, 1993, section
11-4-5 of this chapter.
2.   Land Dedication Requirement: The land dedication requirement shall bear a
direct relationship to the existing community standard of municipal property
dedicated to the provision of services and for the enjoyment of the residents
of the village. The total land dedication requirement for municipal purposes
shall be 9.7 acres per one thousand (1,000) of ultimate population.
B.   Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreational Land Dedication:
1.   Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed development shall
bear directly upon the amount of land required for dedication as determined by
the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit model created by
the Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.,
latest edition, 1993, section
11-4-5 of this chapter.
2.   Land Dedication Requirement: The land dedication requirement shall bear a
direct relationship to the existing community standard of park district
property dedicated to the provision of services and for the enjoyment of the
residents of the village and the Lake Bluff park district. The total
requirement shall be 7.3 acres of land per one thousand (1,000) of ultimate
population in accordance with the following criteria:
 
Recreation Area     Size Range     Minimum Acres Per 1,000 Of Ultimate
                                   Population
Playground/minipark 1 to 3 acres   0.4
Neighborhood park   3 to 12 acres  1.4
Communitywide park  12 to 50 acres 5.5
Total                              7.3
 
3.   Location: The "Lake Bluff Park District Establishing Land Dedication
Standards For Land Developers", adopted November 14, 1977, shall be used as a
guideline in locating sites. The type of recreation areas required for a
particular site will be ascertained by the existence of facilities to service
the area, and the type of recreation area required may be substituted by the
village board of trustees so as to achieve the criteria set forth herein. A
park site adjoining all elementary school sites of not less than five (5) acres
shall be considered a requirement. A central location which will serve equally
the entire development is most desirable. In large developments, these sites
can be located throughout the development according to established standards
for park area distances.
4.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas:
a.   When developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and
facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for local public
recreational services. Depending on the size of the development, a portion of
the park and recreation areas in subdivisions, resubdivisions, multi-family
projects, or planned residential developments may, at the option of the village
board of trustees, be provided in the form of "private" open space in lieu of
dedicated "public" space. The extent of same shall be determined by the village
board of trustees, based upon the needs of the projected residents, the
following criteria, and in conformance to the total park and recreation land
for the general area.
b.   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will
imply a dedication of a substantially greater amount of land as private open
space than provided normally, substantially higher degree of improvement and
the installation of recreational facilities, including equipment, by the
developer as part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including
specifications of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village
board of trustees before any credit is given for private recreation areas. The
developer must also guarantee that these private recreation areas will be
permanently maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal
documents. Private "swimming clubs" are included in this provision. A copy of
"Suggested Criteria For Swimming Pool Development", as adopted by the Lake
Bluff park district, shall be used for guidance by the developer. When an
adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to
compute the total park land dedication that would have been required from the
subdivision, resubdivision, multi-family housing project or planned residential
development, and then subtract the credit to be given.
C.   Criteria For Requiring School Site Land Dedication:
1.   Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to be generated by a
subdivision, resubdivision, planned residential development or multi-family
housing project shall bear directly upon the amount of land required to be
dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement shall be determined
by obtaining the ratio of: a) estimated children to be served in each such
school classification over the b) maximum recommended number of students to be
served in each such school classification, as stated herein, and then applying
such ratio to the c) said minimum recommended number of acres for a school site
of each such school classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall
be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to
serve the estimated increased children in each such school classification. The
ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly upon the amount
of land required for dedication as determined by the table of estimated
ultimate population per dwelling unit model created by the Illinois School
Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc., latest edition,
1993, section
11-4-5 of this chapter.
2.   School Classifications And Size Of School Site: School classifications and
size of school sites within the village shall be determined in accordance with
the following criteria:
 
                         Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Of Acres Of
School Classification By For Each Such School       Land For Each School Site
Grade                    Classification             Of Such Classification
                                                    Requirement
Elementary school        600                        15
Grades K – 5
Junior high school       900                        30
Grades 6 – 8
High school              1,500                      50
Grades 9 – 12
 
3.   Location: The standards adopted by the affected school districts shall be
used as a guideline for locating sites.
D.   Criteria For Requiring Library Land Dedication:
1.   Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed development shall
bear directly upon the amount of land required for dedication as determined by
the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit model created by
the Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.,
latest edition, 1993, section
11-4-5 of this chapter.
2.   Land Dedication Requirement: The land dedication requirement shall bear a
direct relationship to the existing community standard of library property
dedicated to the provision of services and for the enjoyment of the residents
of the village. Recognizing the peculiar nature of the library site, the
village shall, upon receipt of an impact statement which describes how the new
development, subdivision, annexation, planned residential development, or
housing project will affect the library, donate a portion of the dedication
that the village is entitled to, pursuant to subsection A of this section, to
the library for the purposes of alleviating said impact and maintaining service
levels to the new and existing residents. The total land dedication requirement
of library property shall be 0.05 acre of land per one thousand (1,000) of
ultimate population, plus ten percent (10%) of the total municipal dedication,
which ten percent (10%) shall be devoted from the otherwise applicable
dedication requirements set forth in subsection A of this section.
E.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of Municipal, Park And
Recreational, School And Library Sites:
1.   Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical, or when the available land is inappropriate for municipal, park and
recreational, school or library purposes, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication required. The cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication
required shall be handled as follows:
a.   The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreational land dedications
shall be held in trust by the village, or other public body designated by the
village, solely for the acquisition of park and recreation land as hereinbefore
classified, which will be available to service immediate or future needs of the
residents of that subdivision, resubdivision, planned residential development
or multi-family housing project or for the improvement of other existing local
park and recreation land which already serve such needs.
b.   The cash contributions in lieu of municipal sites shall be held in trust
by the village solely for use in the acquisition of land for municipal purposes
to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that subdivision,
resubdivision, planned residential development or multi-family housing project,
or for the improvement of other existing municipal lands which already serve
such needs.
c.   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in trust by
the village or other public body designated by the village, solely for use in
the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or future
needs of children from that subdivision, resubdivision, planned residential
development or multi-family housing project, or for the improvement to any
existing school sites which already serve such needs.
d.   The cash contributions in lieu of library sites shall be held in trust by
the village or other public body designated by the village, solely for use in
the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or future
needs from that subdivision, resubdivision, planned residential development or
multi-family housing project, or for the improvement to any existing library
facilities which already serve such needs.
2.   If any portion of cash contribution in lieu of municipal, park and
recreational, school or library land dedication is not expended for the
purposes set forth herein within ten (10) years from the date of receipt, it
shall be refunded to the developer who made such contribution by the
governmental body holding the money after the expiration of the tenth year.
F.   Lots That May Remain Undeveloped:
1.   When a developer or subdivider represents that there are no plans to build
on or sell any or all of said undeveloped single- family residential lots, the
village board of trustees may, at its election, agree to defer the cash
contributions therefor otherwise payable thereunder to the first occurring of
either the sale of, or the application for a building permit for, each of said
lots. In such cases, the amount of the cash contributions shall be based on the
fair market value of land, as defined in subsection G of this section, at the
time of said sale or application for a building permit, and on the density
formula described in subsection I of this section as then in effect, and the
developer shall provide the village with such security guaranteeing the payment
of such future contributions as the village board of trustees deems
appropriate. The obligation to make such future contributions shall be set
forth on the recorded plat of subdivision, resubdivision, multi-family housing
project, or planned residential development, and no building permit shall be
issued for any lot included in said plat until the contributions therefor have
been paid.
2.   In the event the contributions provided for herein become payable when
there are no plans to build a residence on a lot included in said plat, the
contributions therefor shall be based on the size of the residence which the
village board of trustees, taking into account the location of said property,
the trend of residential construction in the village and all other relevant
information, then determines what would represent the highest and best use of
said lot. (Ord. 95-31, 10-9-1995)
G.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land required
pursuant to subsection E of this section shall be based on the "fair market
value" of the acres of land in the area improved as specified herein that
otherwise would have been dedicated as municipal, park and recreation, school
and library sites. It has been determined that the "fair market value" of
improved land in the village is not less than the per acre amount set out in
section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "development fees", and that such
figure shall be the minimum used in making any calculation required pursuant to
this chapter. The village may, on the basis of a qualified appraisal, establish
a valuation for a particular parcel of land which is higher than the per acre
amount set out in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "development fees". Should the
developer object to the minimum valuation or any valuation determined by the
village, the developer shall file a written objection thereto and shall submit
an appraisal showing the "fair market value" of such improved land in the area
of the proposed development or other evidence thereof. Final determination of
said "fair market value" per acre of such improved land shall be made by the
village board of trustees based upon information submitted by the developer and
from sources which may be submitted to the village board of trustees by the
affected park district, school district, or others. The minimum valuation set
forth herein shall be reviewed annually by the village and adjusted in section
1-12-3 of this code, under the category "development fees", upon determination
by the village board of trustees that a change is required. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-9-
2005)
H.   Criteria For Requiring A Combination Of Land Dedication And A Fee In Lieu
Of Land: There will be situations in subdivisions, resubdivisions, planned
residential developments, or multi-family projects when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the location for
a municipal, park and recreation, school or library site. That portion of the
land within the subdivision, resubdivision, planned residential development or
multi-family housing project falling within the municipal, park and
recreational, school or library location shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
2.   A major part of the municipal, park and recreation, school or library site
has already been acquired and only a small portion of the land is needed from
the development to complete the site. Those remaining portions shall be
acquired by dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be
required for any additional land that otherwise would have been required to be
dedicated.
I.   Density Formula: The table of estimated population per dwelling unit,
section
11-4-5 of this chapter, is generally indicative of current and short range
projected trends in family size for new construction and shall be used in
calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land or the cash
contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is filed thereto by
the developer or subdivider. In the event a developer files a written objection
to the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit provided
herein, the developer shall submit his own demographic study showing the
estimated additional population to be generated from the subdivision,
resubdivision, planned residential development or multi-family housing project,
and in that event, final determination of the density formula to be used in
such calculations shall be made by the village board of trustees based upon
such demographic information submitted by the developer and from other sources
which may be submitted to the village board of trustees by the affected park
district, school districts, or others. It is recognized that population
density, age distribution and local conditions change over the years, and the
specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment if
necessary.
J.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the comprehensive plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
or school sites, or for municipal purposes, in a particular subdivision or
development than the developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond
the developer's contribution shall be reserved for subsequent purchase by the
village or other public body designated by the village; provided, that such
acquisition is made within one year from the date of final approval of the
subdivision, resubdivision, planned residential development or multi-family
housing project.
K.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the subdivision,
resubdivision, planned residential development or multi-family housing project
is less than forty (40) acres, public open space or a school site or municipal
site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable municipal,
park and recreation, school or library sites without hardship on a particular
developer.
L.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated
site, as well as its surroundings, must be suitable for its intended purposes.
Grading on sites dedicated for municipal, park and recreational, school and
library uses shall not differ greatly from surrounding land.
M.   Improved Sites: All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full
service of electrical, water, sewer and streets (including drainage and curb
and gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision
made therefor. (Ord. 95-31, 10-9-1995)
11-4-5: ESTIMATED POPULATION TABLE:
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Children Per Unit
                  Elementary Junior   Total    High
Type Of Preschool Grades K - High     Grades K School     Adults     Total Per
Unit    0 - 4     5 5 - 10   Grades 6 - 8 5 -  Grades 9 - 18 Years + Dwelling
        Years     Years      - 8 11 - 13 Years 12 14 - 17            Unit
                             13 Years          Years
Children Per Unit
                     Elementary Junior   Total    High
Type Of    Preschool Grades K - High     Grades K School    Adults   Total Per
Unit       0 - 4     5 5 - 10   Grades 6 - 8 5 -  Grades 9  18 Years Dwelling
           Years     Years      - 8 11 - 13 Years - 12 14 - +        Unit
                                13 Years          17 Years
Detached
single-
family:
2 bedroom  0.102     0.122      0.041    0.163    0.020     1.694    1.979
3 bedroom  0.254     0.346      0.138    0.484    0.142     1.921    2.801
4 bedroom  0.413     0.470      0.303    0.773    0.303     2.142    3.631
5 bedroom  0.236     0.314      0.231    0.545    0.212     2.637    3.630
Attached
single-
family:
1 bedroom  -0-       -0-        -0-      -0-      -0-       1.068    1.068
2 bedroom  0.092     0.095      0.077    0.172    0.037     1.776    2.077
3 bedroom  0.231     0.237      0.064    0.301    0.066     1.805    2.403
4 bedroom  0.332     0.345      0.155    0.500    0.168     2.243    3.243Apa
                                                                     rtments:
Efficiency -0-       -0-        -0-      -0-      -0-       1.360    1.360
1 bedroom  -0-       0.002      0.001    0.003    0.001     1.749    1.753
2 bedroom  0.042     0.082      0.041    0.123    0.042     1.614    1.821
3 bedroom  0.050     0.230      0.123    0.353    0.116     2.499    3.018
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single- family dwelling
units, only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus,
only 1 category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer types of
detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be
necessary.
Copyright 1993
Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.®
Naperville, Illinois
(Ord. 95-31, 10-9-1995)
CHAPTER 5
APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Appendix A, Tentative Plat Contents And Checklist
11-5-2: Appendix B, Example Of Tentative Plat
11-5-3: Appendix C, Design Standards
11-5-4: Appendix D, Public Improvements
11-5-5: Appendix E, Final Plat Contents And Checklist
11-5-6: Appendix G, Example Of Final Plat
11-5-1: APPENDIX A, TENTATIVE PLAT CONTENTS AND CHECKLIST:
   APPENDIX A
   Village Of Lake Bluff
   Tentative Plat
   Content Requirements And Checklist
Request for approval of tentative plats in Lake Bluff shall include, but is not
limited to, the information indicated in the following content requirements and
checklist. All items applicable to the appropriate subdivision shall be
included in the plat and accompanying material.
NAME OF PLAT    
 
 Date Plat Received - Village Of
 Lake Bluff - Date
 
  Plan Commission Village Board
  O.K. Not O.K.   O.K. Not O.K.
                                                  Plan Commission Village Board
                                                  O.K. Not O.K.   O.K. Not O.K.
1.  Were eleven (11) copies of plat received?     n/a  n/a
2.  Is date of plat shown?
3.  Is plat scale of 1" = 100' used for larger
    tracts? or
4.  Is plat scale of 1" = 50' used for small
    tracts?
5.  Is plat size not less than 8 1/2" x 14", but
    not larger than 30" x 36"?
6.  Is point of compass (north arrow) shown?
7.  Is a correct legal description shown on the
    property being subdivided?
8.  Is the name and address of recorded owner
    (trustee if applicable) shown?
9.  Is the name and address of the developer's
    engineer shown?
10. Is the subdivision boundary shown in heavy
    lines?
11. Are corporate boundary lines within or
    adjacent to the proposed subdivision shown?
    Are sectional and fractional and quarter
12. section lines within or adjacent to the
    proposed subdivision shown?
13. Are existing buildings, if any, shown?
14. Are existing railroads, if any, shown?
15. Are existing underground utilities shown?
16. Are existing utilities easements and rights
    of way shown, to include widths and use?
17. Are proposed easements for public utilities
    shown to include width and use intended?
    Are names of all existing and proposed roads,
18. streets, avenues, alleys and highways in or
    adjoining to area being subdivided shown?
    Are widths of all existing and proposed
19. roads, streets, alleys and highways in or
    adjoining the area being subdivided shown?
20. Are locations and names of adjoining
    subdivision shown?
21. Are names of the owners of all adjoining lots
    or parcels shown or attached?
22. Are proposed lot lines with dimension and
    square foot area of all proposed lots shown?
    Are areas (if any) to be dedicated for
23. schools, parks, playgrounds, etc., shown to
    include dimensions?
    Are contour lines at intervals of not less
24. than one (1) foot nor more than two (2) feet
    shown using Lake Bluff datum?
25. Are watercourses, ponds, ravines and other
    features pertinent to subdivision shown?
26. Are building setback lines shown and in
    compliance with Lake Bluff zoning ordinance?
27. Is zoning classification of proposed
    subdivision shown?
28. Are zoning classifications of adjoining
    subdivisions and parcels shown?
29. Is proposed electric service shown?
30. Is proposed gas service shown?
31. Is proposed water source and service shown?
32. Are provisions for sewage disposal shown?
33. Is proposed method of stormwater drainage
    shown?
    Is a vicinity sketch, at a legible scale,
34. showing the relationship of the plat to its
    surroundings shown?
35. Are lot numbers, with block numbers or
    letters, shown?
36. Are drainage easements, existing and
    proposed, shown?
37. Do easements shown provide continuity
    throughout the subdivision?
38. Does the proposed subdivision conform to Lake
    Bluff subdivision design standards?
39. Does the plat show compliance with the Lake
    Bluff zoning ordinance?
40. Does the plat show compliance with other
    village ordinances?
41. Does the plat show compliance with all
    stipulations of the plan commission?
    Does the plat show compliance with all
42. stipulations of the village board of          n/a  n/a
    trustees?
43. Not used.
44. Not used.
ACCOMPANYING MATERIAL:
    Has an attorney's opinion or other suitable
1.  document been provided showing that the title
    to the proposed subdivision land is in the
    owner's name, as shown in the plat?
    Has a designated village engineer reviewed
2.  the plat and made comments and recommendation
    for approval or disapproval? (Attach copy of
    engineer's report)
    Have all changes recommended by the
3.  designated village engineer been included in
    the plat and/or accompanying material?
    Has the village attorney reviewed the plat
4.  and accompanying material and made comments
    and recommendations for approval or
    disapproval? (Attach attorney report)
    Have all changes recommended by the village
5.  attorney been made in the plat and/or
    accompanying material?
6.  If septics are proposed by the developer:
    A. Are the lots 21/2 acres or larger?
    (village ordinance)
    B. Are the lots located in excess of 1,000
    feet from a village sewer? (village
    ordinance)
    C. Has the Lake County public health
    department approved the use of septics?
7.  Private wells are proposed by the developer:
    A. Are the lots located 1,000 feet or more
    from a village water main?
    B. Has the developer been reminded that all
    wells must be installed in accordance with
    and in compliance with state of Illinois
    department of public health rules and
    regulations and those of other regulatory
    governmental agencies?
    Has the owner/developer provided a statement
8.  of estimated number of 1, 2, 3, 4 or more
    bedroom units to be constructed in the
    subdivision?
9.  Not used.
    Has the owner/developer been notified by the
10. plan commission of recommendation on approval                 n/a  n/a
    or disapproval of the plat?
    Has the owner/developer been notified of
11. village board approval or disapproval of the  n/a  n/a
    plat or appropriate referral action?
    Has a copy of the checklist, signed by the
12. chairman of the plan commission, been                         n/a  n/a
    provided to the village trustees?
13. Not used.
14. Not used.
 
Date         Signature - Chairman, Plan Commission
(Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-5-2: APPENDIX B, EXAMPLE OF TENTATIVE PLAT:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-122.png]
(Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-5-3: APPENDIX C, DESIGN STANDARDS:
   APPENDIX C
   Village Of Lake Bluff
   Subdivision Design Standards
Standards and details of design contained herein are intended only as minimum
requirements to enable the general arrangement and layout of a subdivision to
be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances. However, in the design and
development of the plat, the subdivider shall use standards consistent with the
site conditions so as to assure a pleasant and desirable neighborhood.
   (1)   Streets:
      (a)   Continuation Of Existing Streets: Proposed streets shall provide
for continuation or completion of any existing streets (constructed or
recorded) in adjoining property, in similar alignment, and at equal or greater
width, but not less than sixty six (66) feet in width. All streets shall be
carried to the proposed subdivision boundary unless otherwise recommended by
the plan commission and approved by the village board. Where unsubdivided land
adjoins the proposed subdivision, provisions shall be made, where necessary,
for the extension of streets into such unsubdivided area. Such provision may
include leaving vacant land which would be required to extend such streets to
this area; or when the subdivision of such area can be foreseen in the near
future, this provision may include street construction to the boundary of such
area.
      (b)   Rights Of Way: Minimum widths for street right of way shall conform
to the following schedule and enclosure 1 to appendix D, section
11-5-4 of this chapter:
         Residential collector streets: Eighty (80) feet.
         Residential streets, no parking: Sixty six (66) feet.
         Residential street, parking one side: Sixty six (66) feet.
         Commercial, industrial streets and thoroughfares, parking on both
sides: Eighty (80) feet.
         Cul-de-sac streets: Sixty six (66) feet.
      (c)   Thoroughfares Involved In Subdivision: Where a new subdivision
involves frontage on an existing state highway, route or county highway access,
egress approval must be obtained from the county and state in addition to that
of the village. Example of thoroughfares, see enclosure 1 to appendix D,
section
11-5-4 of this chapter.
      (d)   Railroads Involved In Subdivision: If a railroad is involved, the
subdivision plan should:
         (1) Be so arranged as to permit, where necessary, future grade
separations at highway crossings of the railroad. (Crossing to be at right
angles.)
         (2) Border the railroad with a parallel street at a sufficient
distance from it to permit deep lots to go back onto the railroad; or form a
buffer strip for park, commercial or industrial area.
         (3) Provide cul-de-sacs at right angles to the railroad so as to
permit lots to back thereonto.
      (e)   Land Not Platted: Where the plat to be submitted includes only part
of the tract owned by the subdivider, the plan commission may require
topography and a sketch of a tentative future street system of the unsubdivided
portion.
      (f)   Physical And Cultural Features: In general, streets shall be
platted with appropriate regard for topography, creeks, wooded areas, and other
natural features which would lend themselves to attractive treatment.
      (g)   Neighborhood Plan: If an overall plan has been made by the plan
commission for the neighborhood in which the proposed subdivision is located,
the street system of the latter shall conform in general thereto.
      (h)   Circulation: The street pattern shall provide ease of circulation
within the subdivision as well as convenient access to adjoining streets,
thoroughfares, or unsubdivided land as may be required by the plan commission.
In a case where a street will eventually be extended beyond the plat, but is
temporarily dead ended, an interim turnaround may be required.
      (i)   Street Intersections: Street intersections shall intersect at an
angle of not less than seventy five (75) degrees. When this criteria cannot be
met, the centerlines shall intersect at right angles by means of curves.
      (j)   Dead End Streets: Permanent dead end streets shall be discouraged,
where a reasonable substitute for a dead end street exists. Where a dead end
street is of a temporary nature, awaiting its extension into adjoining
undeveloped land, a cul-de-sac or T dead end intersection may be permitted. All
land in excess of that needed for a temporary street, when extended, or the
turnaround, shall be subject to a temporary easement. (Easements for utilities
shall be permanent unless the owner agrees to move any utilities installed
within turnaround right of way.)
      (k)   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall only be permitted
where topographical or geographical features such as rivers, streams and cliffs
and such structures as railroads, interstate highways, etc., preclude
continuation of streets. Whenever a cul-de-sac is permitted, such street shall
be no longer than six hundred sixty (660) feet and shall be provided at the
closed end with a turnaround having a street property line diameter of at least
one hundred twenty (120) feet in the case of residential subdivision. The right
of way width of the street leading to the turnaround shall be a minimum of
sixty six (66) feet. The property line at the intersection of the turnaround
and the lead-in portion of the street shall be rounded at a radius of not less
than twenty five (25) feet. A turnaround diameter greater than one hundred
twenty (120) feet may be required by the plan commission in the base of
commercial or industrial subdivision if it is deemed necessary.
      (l)   Half Streets: Dedication of half streets is prohibited. Where there
exists a dedicated or platted half street or alley adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half shall be platted and dedicated.
      (m)   Alleys: Except where justified by unusual conditions, alleys will
normally not be required or permitted.
      (n)   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five (125) feet shall not be permitted unless recommended by the
plan commission and/or approved by the village board.
      (o)   Easements: All easements shall be dimensioned and shall clearly
show the purpose for which they were created, and shall be at least ten (10)
feet in width. Easements for utilities shall be provided along front, rear or
side lot lines or along alleys, if needed. Evidence will be submitted that the
public utilities company concerned or village, as applicable, can
satisfactorily serve with the utilities easements provided.
      (p)   Street Names: All newly platted streets shall be named and in a
manner conforming to the prevailing street naming system. A proposed street
that is obviously in alignment with other existing streets, or with a street
that may logically be extended, although the various portions be at a
considerable distance from each other, shall bear the same name. Names of new
streets shall be recommended by the plan commission and approved by the village
board in order to avoid duplication or close similarity of names.
      (q)   Dedication: Streets will be dedicated by plat and improvements
officially accepted by the village before the village will accept and assume
maintenance responsibilities.
      (r)   Private Streets: Private streets will not be allowed in a
subdivision. (Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-5-4: APPENDIX D, PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   APPENDIX D
   Village Of Lake Bluff
   Public Improvements
1.   Responsibility: The subdivider or owner shall at his own expense install
and construct all improvements required by this title, except those
specifically installed at the expense of North Shore Gas, Commonwealth Edison
or Illinois Bell Telephone. All requested improvements shall be installed and
constructed in accordance with specifications approved or published by the
village.
2.   Specifications: Public improvements shall meet or exceed the village
design standards and specifications. The subdivider shall submit three (3)
copies of detailed plans and specifications for the proposed improvements to
the village for approval. Plans shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Illinois.
A.   Street And Alley Grades: Subdividers shall recommend the grades at which
dedicated streets and alleys within the platted area shall be installed. Such
grades are subject to review by the village engineer and final approval of the
village board. All streets shall be graded to the full width of the right of
way, and the adjacent side slopes shall be graded to blend with the natural
ground level. The maximum grade shall not exceed six (6) percent for
thoroughfares, or eight (8) percent for local streets. All changes in grades on
major roads or highways shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length
of two hundred (200) feet, if deemed necessary and recommended by the village
engineer; for minor streets, all changes in grade shall be connected by
vertical curves of minimum length of one hundred fifty (150) feet visibility,
especially at intersections; sight distance shall be resolved in detail with
the village engineer.
B.   Street Widths: Streets shall have a width and cross section as shown in
figures 1 through 5, for the type of street involved. See enclosure 1 to this
appendix.
C.   Curb And Gutter: Curb and gutter shall be installed on all roadways being
dedicated for public use.
      (1) Combination Portland concrete curb and gutter shall be installed and
shall meet the current Illinois department of transportation standard
specifications for road and bridge construction.
         (a)   Residential streets shall be provided with the Lake Bluff
standard combination curb and gutter. See enclosure 2 to this appendix.
         (b)   Commercial streets, industrial streets, and thoroughfares shall
be provided with the Illinois division of highways standard barrier type curb
and gutter B 6.12. See enclosure 3 to this appendix.
         (c)   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints shall be 3/4" preformed type
1 cork ASTM spec. D-544 and shall be installed at one hundred (100) foot
intervals and at points of curvature and tangency on all curves.
         (d)   Contraction Joints: Contraction joints shall be saw cut at
twenty five (25) foot intervals.
D.   Street Surfacing: All roadways being dedicated for public use shall be
surfaced from curb to curb. Surfacing shall be bituminous concrete or Portland
cement concrete.
      (1) Design:
         (a)   All pavements shall be designed in accordance with the state of
Illinois manuals on the structural design of bituminous pavements or Portland
cement concrete pavements.
         (b)   Permissible pavement construction within the village is as
follows:
            1.   Bituminous aggregate mix with bituminous concrete surface
class I.
            2.   Portland cement concrete pavement with pavement fabric, and
with 3/4" preformed cork expansion joints, at intervals of not more than one
hundred (100) feet, as well as all points of curvature.
         (c)   Design thickness computations shall be provided to the village
engineer for concurrence of design, but shall not be less than seven (7)
inches.
         (d)   Pavements shall be constructed parallel to and centered within
the dedicated right of way.
         (e)   Cross slope of the pavement shall be a minimum of 0.02 feet per
foot.
         (f)   The maximum pavement grade shall be 8%. The minimum pavement
grade shall be 0.4%.
         (g)   The length of vertical curves shall be in accordance with state
of Illinois highway standards based on the desirable sight distances for the
design speed. Lengths shall be based on a stopping sight distance of two
hundred feet (200') (k = 0.30) with a minimum length vertical curve of one
hundred fifty (150) feet.
         (h)   Radii for horizontal curves shall be in accordance with the
state of Illinois highway standards based on the design speed for the roadway.
Minimum radius of curvature shall be one hundred (100) feet.
         (i)   Return radii at intersections shall not be less than thirty (30)
feet as measured at the back of curb; except in industrial and commercial areas
where return radii shall not be less than fifty (50) feet.
         (j)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum radius to back of curb of fifty
(50) feet. No center islands will be allowed.
      (2) Materials And Specifications: The "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction" of the department of transportation, state of
Illinois, shall be a minimum specification for the installation of pavements
and sidewalks.
E.   Sidewalks: Where sidewalks are required or installed, they shall be of
Portland cement concrete five (5) inches uniform thickness and at least five
(5) feet wide. Standard specifications as indicated above.
F.   Stormwater Sewers And Drains:
      (1) Design:
         (a)   Storm drainage systems shall be designed using rational method.
         (b)   Design storm shall be based on recurrence frequency of five (5)
years.
         (c)   Coefficient of runoff shall not be less than C = 0.35 unless a
lesser coefficient can be factually substantiated.
         (d)   Storm sewers connections shall be provided for each commercial
or industrial building site.
      (2) Materials And Specifications: The Illinois department of
transportation standard specifications for road and bridge construction shall
govern the work.
         (a)   Pipe materials shall be limited to concrete sewer pipe and
reinforced concrete sewer pipe.
         (b)   Manholes, catch basins and inlets shall be precast concrete. See
enclosures 4, 5 and 6 to this appendix.
G.   Sanitary Sewers And House Service System:
      (1) Design:
         (a)   System design shall conform to the recommended standards for
sewage works 1971 revised edition - Great Lakes - Upper Mississippi River board
of state sanitary engineers.
         (b)   The minimum slope of the terminal end of a sewer shall be 0.80
feet per one hundred (100) feet.
         (c)   The minimum slope for house services shall be 1.00 foot per one
hundred (100) feet.
         (d)   Service connections shall be by "wye" fittings. See enclosure 7
to this appendix.
      (2) Materials And Specifications:
         (a)   Sewer pipe eight (8) inches through twelve (12) inches internal
diameter shall be limited to clay pipe manufactured in accordance with ASTM
specifications C-700, and pipe joints shall conform to ASTM specifications C-
425 except in specific locations where the village engineer may recommend the
use of other materials. Sanitary sewer pipe bedding - see enclosure 8 to this
appendix.
         (b)   Sewer pipe fifteen (15) inches and larger shall be of reinforced
concrete pipe with "O-ring" gasket joints.
         (c)   Manholes shall be precast concrete. Cast iron ladder irons shall
be provided. See enclosures 4 and 5 to this appendix.
         (d)   Manhole frames and covers shall meet the requirements of the
state of Illinois department of transportation standard specifications for road
and bridge construction, and shall be type 1, weighing five hundred forty (540)
lbs. See enclosure 10 to this appendix.
      (3) Lift Stations: Design of lift stations and selection of pump
equipment and controls shall be as specified by the village.
H.   Water Main And House Service System:
      (1) Design:
         (a)   Water mains shall be sized so as to provide adequate supply for
the intended use of the subdivision or to provide adequate fire flow, whichever
is greater. Fire flow shall be based on providing a minimum flow of one
thousand five hundred (1,500) gpm and maintaining a minimum residual pressure
of twenty five (25) psi in the main.
         (b)   A looped water main system shall be provided. (No dead ends.)
         (c)   Minimum size water main shall be eight (8) inches.
         (d)   Maximum fire hydrant spacing shall be three hundred fifty (350)
feet.
         (e)   Isolation valves shall be installed so that not more than one
thousand (1,000) feet of main is isolated by closing three valves. All valves
shall be in precast valve vaults.
         (f)   Water mains shall be installed with a minimum of five and one-
half (51/2) feet of cover below the centerline of the proposed pavement.
         (g)   Air release valves shall be provided at high points unless other
means of bleeding air from the main are available.
      (2) Materials: All materials shall meet current AWWA standards as a
minimum.
         (a)   All water mains shall be ductile iron pipe, ASA thickness class
52.
         (b)   All gate valves shall be Eddy, or approved equal.
         (c)   All fire hydrants shall be Eddy, or approved equal. Installation
- see enclosure 9 to this appendix.
      (3) Specifications: AWWA specifications C-600 shall be a minimum
specification for the installation of water mains.
      (4) Hydrostatic Test: All water mains shall be tested at one hundred
fifty (150) psi with an allowable leakage as set forth in section 13, table 3,
or AWWA specification C-600.
      (5) Disinfection: AWWA specification C-601 shall be a minimum
specification for the procedure used in disinfecting mains.
      (6) Water Services: Water services shall be of copper or cast iron and
shall be a minimum size of one (1) inch diameter. Maximum size tap permissible
in the barrel of the cast iron main shall be as follows:
 
Pipe size 6" 8"     10"   12" 14" 16"
Tap size  1" 1 1/4" 11/2" 2"  2"  21/2"
 
When a service requires a size larger than allowed above, the connection shall
be made by use of proper fittings to protect the main. Multiple taps and use of
a branch gooseneck or "tree connections" are to be avoided.
Customer water service lines shall be stubbed from the water main to the
nearest private property lot line for each platted lot, adjoining lot, tract or
building site.
I.   Natural Gas: Gas mains shall be installed in parkways. Across street
services shall be installed by jacking or boring.
J.   Electric And Telephone Service: Easement shall be provided for telephone
and electric service not less than ten (10) feet in width and, where
practicable, to be provided preferably at the front of each lot and along such
other lot lines as to provide continuity of alignment from block to block. All
utility distribution lines for telephone and electric service to be installed
shall be placed underground within easements or dedicated public ways. The
installation of such facilities shall be made in compliance with applicable
orders, rules and regulations of the Illinois commerce commission now or
hereafter effective, and the owner or subdivider of any property to be served
from such underground installations shall be responsible for compliance with
the rules and regulations, now and hereafter effective, and filed with said
commission pursuant to the Illinois public utilities act, of any public utility
whose services will be required with respect to the provision of such
underground facilities. When the public street right of way is used for cable
installation, electric and telephone service lines shall be stubbed from the
local distribution underground cable to each platted lot, adjoining lot, tract
or building site.
K.   Street Lighting:
      (a) Streetlights shall be located at all street intersections and at a
maximum spacing of five hundred (500) feet along the street proper.
      (b) Mercury luminaires of a four hundred (400) watt minimum size of
equivalent high pressure sodium lights shall be provided for each installation.
      (c) Supporting poles shall be of sufficient height to provide a minimum
of twenty (20) feet clearance between the luminaire and the pavement surface.
      (d) Operation of the luminaires shall be by means of a photoelectric
control.
      (e) All wiring shall be underground in conduit and shall be sleeved at
street or parkway lot crossings.
      (f) The aesthetic design of the luminaires and poles shall meet with the
approval of the village board.
L.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs of a type approved by the village
board shall be furnished and installed at the expense of the owner or
subdivider, at all street intersections. The street name signs shall bear the
names of the intersecting streets which shall be of such size and type as can
be easily read from the street.
M.   Street Trees: The owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land in the
village may set out, plant, keep or maintain in the parkways of the public
streets, contiguous to such lot or parcel of land such plantings of trees as
are permitted under the ordinances of the village, but before doing so, he
shall obtain a permit for same as required by the village.
3.   A typical driveway plan is shown in enclosure 11 to this appendix.
4.   Upon completion of the improvement, the subdivider shall submit as built
plans to the village showing the actual location of all improvements installed.
As built plans shall be ink or linen or Mylar and shall be either the original
plans with required corrections, or duplicates of the corrected originals.
5.   Not used.
6.   Not used.
7.   Not used.
8.   Not used.
9.   Not used.
Enclosure 1, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-124.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-126.png]
Enclosure 2, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-128.png]
Enclosure 3, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-130.png]
Enclosure 4, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-132.png]
Enclosure 5, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-134.png]
Enclosure 6, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-136.png]
Enclosure 7, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-138.png]
Enclosure 8, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-140.png]
Enclosure 9, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-142.png]
Enclosure 10, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-144.png]
Enclosure 11, Appendix D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-146.png]
(Ord., 4-11-1978)
11-5-5: APPENDIX E, FINAL PLAT CONTENTS AND CHECKLIST:
   APPENDIX E
   Village Of Lake Bluff
   Final Plat
   Content Requirements And Checklist
Requests for approval of final plats in Lake Bluff shall include, but are not
limited to, the information indicated in the following content requirements and
checklist. All items applicable to the appropriate subdivision shall be
included in the plat and accompanying material.
NAME OF PLAT    
         Date Plat Received - Village Of
         Lake Bluff - Date
  Plan Commission Village Board
  O.K. Not O.K.   O.K. Not O.K.
                                                  Plan Commission Village Board
                                                  O.K. Not O.K.   O.K. Not O.K.
1.  Were eleven (11) copies of plat received?                        
2.  Is plat in strict accordance with the                            
    approved tentative plat?
3.  Is date of plat shown?                                           
4.  Is plat scale of 1" = 100' used for larger                       
    tracts? or,
5.  Is plat scale of 1" = 50' used for small                         
    tracts?
6.  Is plat size not less than 8 1/2" x 14", but                     
    not larger than 30" x 36"?
7.  Is point of compass (north arrow) shown?                         
8.  Is a correct legal description shown of the                      
    property being subdivided?
    Is a correct survey by a registered Illinois
9.  land surveyor shown with surveyor certificate                    
    complete and signed?
    Does the plat show description and location
10. of all survey monuments at all lot corners,                      
    as well as other locations required by 765
    Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/0.01 et seq.
    Are monuments described either iron pipes one
    (1) inch in diameter and twenty four (24)
11. inches long or stone or reinforced concrete                      
    monuments four (4) inches in diameter and
    twenty four (24) inches long?
12. Are all dimensions both linear and angular                       
    shown?
13. Are all linear dimensions shown in feet and                      
    decimal parts of a foot?
14. Are complete curve data shown for all curves,                    
    forming street or property line boundaries?
15. Is the name and address of the recorded owner                    
    (trustee if applicable) shown?
16. Is name and address of the developer or                          
    sponsor shown (if different than owner)?
17. Is the subdivision boundary shown in heavy                       
    lines?
18. Are corporate boundary lines within or                           
    adjacent to the proposed subdivision shown?
    Are section and fractional section and
19. quarter section lines within or adjacent to                      
    the proposed subdivision shown?
20. Are existing railroads shown?                                    
    Are widths of all existing (if any) roads,
21. streets, alleys and highways immediately                         
    abutting the area being subdivided shown?
22. Are names of all existing (if any) and                           
    proposed streets shown?
23. Are proposed lot lines with dimension and                        
    square foot area of all proposed lots shown?
    Are areas (if any) to be dedicated for
24. schools, parks, playgrounds, etc., shown to                      
    include dimensions?
25. Are watercourses, ponds, ravines, and other                      
    features pertinent to subdivision shown?
26. Are all building setback lines shown?                            
27. Are lot numbers, with blocks numbered or                         
    lettered shown?
28. Are existing drainage easements (if any)                         
    shown?
29. Are proposed drainage easements (if any)                         
    shown?
30. Are all existing utilities easements shown                       
    with width and purpose indicated?
31. Are easements for public utilities shown with                    
    width and use intended?
32. Do easements shown provide continuity                            
    throughout the subdivision?
    Does the plat have lettered upon it a
    statement of dedication properly conveying in
33. all lands dedicated for public streets,                          
    alleys, public schools, parks or any other
    public use?
34. Does the proposed subdivision conform to Lake                    
    Bluff subdivision design standards?
35. Does the final plat show compliance with the                     
    Lake Bluff zoning ordinance?
36. Does the final plat show compliance with                         
    other village ordinances?
    Does the final plat show compliance with all
37. stipulations of the plan commission and/or                       
    village board of trustees?
38. Are all proper certificates, signatures and                      
    seals required by law affixed to the plat?
39. Not used.                                                        
40. Not used.                                                        
41. Not used.                                                        
ACCOMPANYING MATERIAL:
    Have three complete sets of plans and
1.  specifications been provided for all proposed n/a  n/a             
    and required public improvements such as the
    following:
   A. Streets, pavements, curb and gutters?                         
   B. Stormwater sewers and drains                                  
   C. Sanitary sewers                                               
   D. Water distribution system to include                          
    hydrants
   E. Utility service lines                                         
   F. Streetlights                                                  
   G. Parking lots                                                  
   H. Sidewalks, as applicable                                      
   I. Other improvements required - specify in                      
    blank lines below
   J. Not used                                                      
   K. Not used                                                      
   L. Not used                                                      
    Has the owner and the owner's professional
2.  engineer executed the certificate concerning                     
    drainage as required by 765 Illinois Compiled
    Statutes 205/0.01 et seq., "plat act"?
    Has certificate of title been provided
3.  certifying the ownership of all lands being                      
    subdivided and dedicated?
    Has a letter or evidence been provided in
4.  writing by the utility concerned that service                    
    can be provided the area by utilities
    easements provided?
    Has a statement been signed by the subdivider
    or owner, setting forth the improvements to
5.  be made in the subdivision, clearly                              
    describing same and agreeing to make said
    improvements at his own expense?
6.  Has a date for completion of improvements     n/a  n/a             
    been set by the village?
    Has the subdivider's engineer certified that
    the improvements provided for in the plans
7.  and specifications and in the subdivider's                       
    own statement, meet the minimum ordinance
    requirements?
    Has the subdivider's engineer given an
8.  estimate of the cost of all improvements                         
    covered in plans and specifications and in
    the subdivider's statement?
    Has the village engineer approved all
9.  improvements to include plans and                                
    specifications, and the plat contents as
    consists of engineering data?
    Has the village engineer approved
    subdivider's estimate of costs of all
10. improvements provided for in plans and                           
    specifications and the subdivider's
    statement?
    Has duly completed and executed bond with
11. surety been posted with the village by the    n/a  n/a             
    subdivider or owner?
    Does the bond with surety cover the full
    amount of the subdivider's engineer estimate
12. of improvement costs? (As amended by village  n/a  n/a             
    engineer estimate, if found to be
    inadequate.)
13. Has the village attorney approved the bond                       
    surety document provided?
    Has the village attorney recommended and
14. board approved alternate surety? If so,       n/a  n/a             
    indicate form of surety in blank lines
    provided.
15. Alternate surety for improvements.            n/a  n/a             
    Are all proper certificates, seals and
16. signatures required by law affixed to                            
    accompanying material?
17. Has the village engineer recommended approval                    
    of the plat and accompanying material?
18. Has the village attorney recommended approval                    
    of the plat and accompanying material?
19. Date plan commission approved final plat?                   n/a  n/a
20. Date village board approved final plat?       n/a  n/a             
    Has the owner/developer provided a statement
21. of estimated number of 1, 2, 3, 4 or more                        
    bedroom units to be constructed in the
    subdivision?
22. Not used.                                                        
23. Not used.                                                        
    Has the owner/developer been notified by the
24. plan commission of recommendations on                       n/a  n/a
    approval or disapproval of the plat?
    Has the owner/developer been notified of
25. village board approval or disapproval of the  n/a  n/a             
    plat or appropriate referral action?
    Has a copy of the checklist signed by the
26. chairman of the plan commission been                        n/a  n/a
    forwarded to the village board?
 
Date      Signature - Chairman, Plan Commission
(Ord., 4-11-1978; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5-6: APPENDIX G, EXAMPLE OF FINAL PLAT:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36dd1b2f5b592e24d45e5a379cf42be7f5b571ef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-148.png]
(Ord., 4-11-1978)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: County Regulations Adopted
12-1-2: Conflicting Provisions
12-1-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Lake County watershed development ordinance, as most recently amended by
the County of Lake on October 13, 2015, is hereby adopted by reference and is
in full force and effect within the Village of Lake Bluff and is found in its
own compilation. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-11-2016)
12-1-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event that the rules, regulations, terms or conditions imposed pursuant
to the Lake County watershed development ordinance are either more restrictive
or less restrictive than comparable rules, regulations, terms or conditions
imposed by any other applicable rule, regulation, resolution, ordinance,
statute or law, then the most restrictive rules, regulations, terms or
conditions shall govern. (Ord. 2006-7, 4-10-2006)
