VILLAGE CODE
of
LAKE BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-O-13, passed 7-1-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Lake Barrington, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-O-13, passed July 1, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
               American Legal Publishing
               Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-14
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON VILLAGE CODE
AND IMPLEMENTING A MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
AND A MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
FOR THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
 
WHEREAS, the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, provides that the
Corporate Authorities of each municipality may pass all ordinances and make all
rules and regulations proper or necessary, to carry into effect the powers
granted to municipalities, with such fines or penalties as may be deemed
proper; and
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois (the “Village”)
is a home rule Illinois municipality pursuant to the Constitution of the State
of Illinois of 1970, as amended; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
provides that, beginning on January 1, 2026, all Illinois municipalities may
impose a tax “upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at
retail in the municipality” (the “Municipal Grocery Tax”) (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24);
and
 
WHEREAS, the Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax may be imposed “at the
rate of 1% of the gross receipts from these sales” (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and
 
WHEREAS, any Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24)
requires any municipality imposing a Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation
Tax under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24) to
also impose a Service Occupation Tax at the same rate, “upon all persons
engaged, in the municipality, in the business of making sales of service, who,
as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer groceries” as “an
incident to a sale of service” (the “Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax”)
(65 ILCS 5/8-11-24); and
 
WHEREAS, any Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax shall be administered,
collected and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue; and
 
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village have determined
that it is appropriate, necessary and in the best interests of the Village and
its residents that the Village levy a Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation
Tax as permitted by Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
8-11-24); and
 
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village have determined
that it is appropriate, necessary and in the best interests of the Village and
its residents, that the Village levy a Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
as permitted by Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24); and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Lake Barrington, in exercise of the authority of this Village as a
Home Rule unit, as follows:
 
SECTION 1. Incorporation of Recitals. The Corporate Authorities of the Village
hereby find that the foregoing recitals are true and correct and shall be and
are hereby incorporated into the text of this Ordinance as its findings of fact
to the same extent as if said recitals were fully set forth herein.
 
SECTION 2. Chapter 1, “Home Rule Sales Taxes”, of Title 2, “Business and
License Regulations”, is hereby re-captioned as “Sales Taxes”, and is hereby
further amended by the addition of a new Section 2-1-5, “Municipal Grocery
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed”, and a new Section 2-1-6, “Municipal Grocery
Service Occupation Tax”, which shall respectively read as follows:
 
“SECTION 2-1-5. Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed. A tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at
retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of such business while this Ordinance is in effect.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
 
SECTION 2-1-6.  Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making
sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service,
transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax
shall be the same rate identified in Section 2, above. The imposition of this
tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of
the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).”
 
SECTION 3. Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 4. Village Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue.
As required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-24), the Village Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
Ordinance with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2025.
 
SECTION 5. Effective Date. The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall take
effect on January 1, 2026.
 
SECTION 6. Repeal of Conflicting Provisions. All ordinances, resolutions and
policies of the Village, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of
this Ordinance are, to the extent of the conflict, expressly repealed on the
effective date of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 7. Severability. If any provision of this Ordinance or application
thereof to any person or circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this Ordinance that can be given effect without the invalid application or
provision, and each invalid provision or invalid application of this Ordinance
is severable.
 
SECTION 8. Headings/Captions. The headings/captions identifying the various
sections and subsections of this Ordinance are for reference only and do not
define, modify, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions of the
Ordinance.
 
SECTION 9. Publication. The Village Clerk is hereby directed by the Corporate
Authorities of this Village to publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form. This
Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its passage and publication
in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
 
Presented, read and passed by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Lake Barrington, Illinois, on a roll call vote at a duly called
regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees on the day 5th of August
2025, and deposited and filed in the Office of the Clerk of said Village on
said date.
 
ROLL CALL VOTE:
YEAS: Trustee Brainerd, Hayes, Perkins, Schaller, Schallmoser, Van Ryne and
President Burke
NAYS:     
ABSENT:    
ABSTAIN:    
APPROVED by the President of the Village of Lake Barrington,
Illinois, this 5th day of August 2025.
 
 
___________________________________
Andrew F. Burke, Village President,
Village of Lake Barrington
ATTEST:
____________________________
Rebekah Harrington, Village Clerk,
Village of Lake Barrington
Recorded in the Record of Ordinances
of the Village as Ordinance No. 2025-O-14
____________________________
Rebekah Harrington, Village Clerk,
Village of Lake Barrington
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
07/16/25
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-17
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE VILLAGE OF
LAKE BARRINGTON VILLAGE CODE
 
(Re: Title 1, Administration:
Section 1-10-7, “Fees, Charges, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village”;
and
Title 8, Zoning:
Section 8-10-2, “Hearing Required; Notice”, Chapter 10, “Variances and Special
Uses”)
 
______________________________________________________________________________
 
 
ADOPTED BY THE
 
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES
 
OF THE
 
VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS
 
THIS 5 TH DAY OF AUGUST 2025.
 
______________________________________________________________________________
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois this 5 th day of August 2025
 
                                                                  
 
 
            
 
Ordinance No. 2025-O-17
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE VILLAGE OF
LAKE BARRINGTON VILLAGE CODE
 
(Re: Title 1, Administration:
Section 1-10-7, “Fees, Charges, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village”;
and
Title 8, Zoning:
Section 8-10-2, “Hearing Required; Notice”, of Chapter 10, “Variances and
Special Uses”)
 
 
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Lake Barrington find that
it is in the best interests of the Village and its residents to amend Section
1-10-7, “Fees, Charges, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village”, of Title 1,
“Administration”, relative to payment to the Village of certain fees and
deposits, and Section 8-10-2, “Hearing Required; Notice”, of Chapter 10,
“Variances and Special Uses”, of Title 8, “Zoning”, of the Lake Barrington
Village Code, all as set forth herein:
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois, in exercise of its authority
as a Home Rule unit, as follows:
SECTION 1: The President and Board of Trustees hereby find that the recitals
hereinabove set forth are true and correct and are incorporated into the text
of this Ordinance as its findings to the same extent as if each such recital
had been set forth herein in its entirety.
   SECTION 2: Those portions of the chart under “Title 8, Zoning”, in Section
1-10-7, “Fees, Charges, Deposits, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village”, of
Chapter 10, “Fees and Deposits”, of Title 1, “Administration”, of the Village
of Lake Barrington Village Code, shall be and are hereby amended, in relevant
part, to read as follows:
 
 
TITLE 8: ZONING
           Village
Type       Code    Description Amount
           Section
* * * *
                   Signage
                   bond for
                   variation
                   hearing,
                   signage
                   bond,
                   refundable:
                   Each
                   petitioner
                   for a
                   variation
                   shall post
                   a bond with
                   be required
                   to
                   reimburse
                   the Village
                   for each
                   sign
Signage            erected to
bond for           notify the  $50.00 per sign (refunded upon return of each sign within 10 days following
variation          public of   conclusion of public hearing for which sign was posted)
hearing,   8-10-2  the public  Petitioner shall reimburse the Village for actual costs incurred by the
refundable         hearing     Village for the Village’s sign contractor to create, post on the respective
Cost of            scheduled   property, and remove the required public hearing signage.
Signage            relative to
                   the
                   requested
                   variation.
                   A minimum
                   of one (1)
                   public
                   hearing
                   sign is and
                   shall be
                   required to
                   be posted
                   on a
                   property,
                   which shall
                   be visible
                   from an
                   adjacent
                   right-of-
                   way.
                   Signage
                   bond for
                   special use
                   hearing,
                   refundable:
                   Each
                   petitioner
                   for a
                   special use
                   shall post
                   a bond with
                   be required
                   to
                   reimburse
                   the Village
                   for each
                   sign
                   erected to
Signage            notify the
bond for           public of   $50.00 per sign (refunded upon return of each sign within 10 days following
special            the public  conclusion of public hearing for which sign was posted)
use        8-10-2  hearing     Petitioner shall reimburse the Village for actual costs incurred by the
hearing,           scheduled   Village for the Village’s sign contractor to create, post on the respective
refundable         relative to property, and remove the required public hearing signage.
Cost of            the
Signage            requested
                   special
                   use. A
                   minimum of
                   one (1)
                   public
                   hearing
                   sign is and
                   shall be
                   required to
                   be posted
                   on a
                   property,
                   which shall
                   be visible
                   from an
                   adjacent
                   right-of-
                   way.
* * * *
 
SECTION 3: Paragraph B, “Affidavit to be Filed”, and Paragraph C, “Public
Hearing Notification Signs Required”, of Section 8-10-2, “Hearing Required;
Notice”, of Chapter 10, “Variances and Special Uses”, of Title 8, “Zoning”, of
the Lake Barrington Village Code are hereby amended to read as follows:
“8-10-2:    HEARING REQUIRED; NOTICE:
* * * *
B.   Affidavit To Be Filed: The petitioner(s) for approval of any variation
shall file with the Village Administrator an affidavit identifying the owners
of all property, whether under the jurisdiction of a municipality or within an
unincorporated area, within one thousand feet (1,000'), excluding rights of way
of public streets, in each direction from all points on the perimeter of the
property which is the subject of their petition (and the respective permanent
index numbers of such properties), and said affidavit shall in any event
include at least the six (6) nearest property owners (and the respective
permanent index numbers of such properties) within the Village; provided,
however, that for the purpose of this section, ownership may be determined on
the basis of the last available tax records of the county. The petitioner(s)
shall also provide to the Village Administrator, along with the required
affidavit, prestamped mailing envelopes (without any return address), with all
postage required for such mailing affixed thereto, addressed to each owner
listed on such affidavit and, in addition, the petitioner(s) shall also provide
one copy of all of the tax map(s) covering all permanent index numbers listed
on such affidavit in the same scale as maintained by the Lake County Clerk’s
Map Department. The Village Administrator will send use the envelopes provided
by the petitioner(s) to cause written notice to be sent by regular U.S. mail,
at the petitioner’s expense, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initial date of the initial public hearing thereon before the Village’s Zoning
Board of Appeals, to those persons listed and identified in said an affidavit
provided by the petitioner(s).
 
C.   Public Hearing Notification Signs Required:
 
         1.   Signs Required: In addition to any other notice that may be
required by this section, the petitioner(s) shall be responsible for posting
the sign(s) on the subject property informing the general public of the initial
date of the upcoming public hearing. The required sign(s) shall be obtained
from the Village Administrator for use by the petitioner(s). Village
Administrator shall determine the number of signs required to be posted on the
respective property, however, a minimum of one (1) sign is required. After the
conclusion of the required public hearing(s) before the Plan Commission, and
after the conclusion of any action on the matter by the Village’s Board of
Trustees, the Village will provide to the Petitioner an invoice for the
creation, posting, and removal of the required signage. The Petitioner is
required to pay said invoice and reimburse the Village within thirty (30) days
of the date of said invoice.  
 
   2.   Content Of Each Sign: Each sign shall contain the following information
with all required lettering a minimum of two inches (2") in height:
 
VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
CONCERNING THIS PROPERTY TO BE
HELD AT [INSERT TIME]
ON [INSERT DAY, DATE, AND YEAR]
AT THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
MUNICIPAL CENTER
23860 N. OLD BARRINGTON ROAD
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL
(847) 381-6010
SUBJECT: [INSERT BRIEF DESCRIPTION]
 
3.   Size: Each sign shall have at least one display surface which shall have a
minimum dimension of four feet (4’) in height and four feet (4’) in width.
 
4.   Placement Of Signs: One public hearing notification sign shall be posted
on the subject property at a location oriented to and readable from the nearest
adjacent roadway. However, additional signs shall be required where a parcel
abuts two (2) or more roadways, and in such cases, one such sign shall be
oriented to and shall be readable from each abutting roadway. Such signs must
be constructed of materials which will withstand existing area weather
conditions.
 
5.   Duration; Removal: Public hearing notification signs must be posted not
less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the scheduled public
hearing on the petition or application, and shall not be removed by the Village
or by the petitioner(s) until after the initial date of the scheduled public
hearing on the petition or application.  The Village’s sign contractor shall
remove the subject signage after being notified by the Village to do so.
 
6.   Reimbursement: Prior to the initial date of the scheduled public hearing
on the petition or application, After the conclusion of the required public
hearing(s) before the Plan Commission, and after the conclusion of any action
on the matter by the Village’s Board of Trustees, the respective petitioner(s)
shall reimburse the Village for the actual out of pocket expenses incurred or
to be incurred by the Village for the fabrication, erection, posting, and
removal of the sign or signs by the Village’s sign contractor as required by
this section. The petitioner shall reimburse the Village within thirty (30)
days of the petitioner’s receipt of an invoice from the Village for the
required signage. No permit(s) and/or approval(s) shall be issued by the
Village until and unless all amounts owed to the Village relative to the
subject application and/or petition have been paid in full. The petitioner(s)
shall also post a cash bond for each sign with the village for use of the
required signs as specified from time to time in section 1-10-7 of this code.
Said bond shall be refunded to the petitioner(s) upon return of the sign within
ten (10) days following the conclusion of the hearing for which the sign was
posted. In the event that the sign is not returned to the Village within ten
(10) days of the completion of the scheduled hearing for which the sign was
posted, the bond shall be forfeited with the fee applying to the cost of
replacement of such sign.
 
  7.   Rules: The Village Administrator is authorized and empowered to
establish such reasonable rules and regulations governing the posting of
notification signs not inconsistent with the provisions of this section to
carry out the intent of this section to provide notice of proposed hearings
which rules may be necessary due to unique characteristics of the subject
property or application.
* * * *”
 
   SECTION 4: The Corporate Authorities of the Village intend that this
Ordinance will be made part of the Lake Barrington Village Code and that
sections of this Ordinance can be renumbered or relettered and the word
“Ordinance” can be changed to “Section”, “Article”, “Chapter”, “Paragraph”, or
some other appropriate word or phrase to accomplish codification, and
regardless of whether this Ordinance is ever codified, the Ordinance can be
renumbered or relettered and typographical errors can be corrected with the
authorization of the Village Attorney, or his or her designee.
 
   SECTION 5: All parts of the Village of Lake Barrington Village Code in
conflict with the terms or provisions of this Ordinance shall be and the same
are hereby amended or repealed to the extent of such conflict, and said Village
Code and all other existing ordinances shall otherwise remain in full force and
effect.
 
SECTION 6: This Ordinance shall not affect any punishment, discipline,
infraction, or penalty or any action based on any other Ordinance of this
Village incurred before the effective date of this Ordinance, nor any suit,
prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the effective date of this
Ordinance, for an offense or violation committed or cause of action arising
before this Ordinance, and said other ordinances as heretofore existing shall
continue in full force and effect for said limited purpose.
 
SECTION 7: If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Ordinance or any part thereof is, for any reason, held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Ordinance, or any part thereof. The Corporate
Authorities hereby declare that they would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentence, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
 
SECTION 8:   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication, as required by law.
 
SECTION 9:   The Village Clerk is directed to immediately publish this
Ordinance in pamphlet form.
 
Presented, read and passed by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois, on a roll call vote at a
regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees on the 5 th day of August
2025, and deposited and filed in the Office of the Clerk of said Village on
said date.
   
ROLL CALL VOTE:
YEAS: Trustee Brainerd, Hayes, Perkins, Schaller, Schallmoser, Van Ryne and
President Burke
NAYS:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
APPROVED by the President of the Village of Lake Barrington,
Lake County, Illinois, this 5 th day of August 2025.
 
 
___________________________________
Andrew F. Burke, Village President,
Village of Lake Barrington
ATTEST:
 
____________________________
Rebekah Harrington, Village Clerk,
Village of Lake Barrington
 
Recorded in the Record of Ordinances of
the Village as Ordinance No. 2025-O-17
 
____________________________
Rebekah Harrington, Village Clerk,
Village of Lake Barrington
 
PUBLISHED IN PAMPHLET FORM THIS 5 TH DAY OF AUGUST 2025.
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 96-O-09
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON MUNICIPAL
CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE ACTING PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE
OF LAKE BARRINGTON, LAKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, in exercise of the authority of this
Village as a Home Rule Unit, as follows:
   SECTION 1: This ordinance, consisting of Titles 1 through 10, inclusive, in
the form attached hereto, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Lake Barrington
Municipal Code" (hereinafter "said Code"), and shall be treated and considered
as a new and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede all other
general and permanent ordinances of the Village passed on or before August 20,
1996, as specified in said Code, except such as by reference thereto in this
Ordinance or in said Code are expressly saved from repeal or continued in force
and effect for any purpose.
   SECTION 2: Any and all additions or amendments to said Code, when passed in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Acting President and Board of
Trustees to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated
into said Code so that reference to the "Lake Barrington Municipal Code" shall
be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments thereto.
   SECTION 3: At least one (1) copy of said Code shall be kept on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk, preserved in looseleaf form. It shall be the
express duty of the Village Clerk, or someone authorized by him or her, to
insert in at least one copy in their designated places all amendments or
ordinances which indicate the intention of the Acting President and Board of
Trustees to make the same a part of said Code when the same have been printed
or reprinted in page form, and to extract from said Code all provisions which
may from time to time be repealed by the Acting President and Board of
Trustees. This amended copy of said Code shall be available for all persons
desiring to examine the same and shall be considered the official Lake
Barrington Municipal Code.
   SECTION 4: In case any section of said Code, or any amendment thereto, for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalties as provided in Chapter 4
of Title 1 of said Code shall apply to the section or the section as amended or
in case such section or amendment contains provisions for which a specific
penalty other than the aforementioned general penalty is provided in another
section in the same chapter as such section or amendment thereto, the specific
penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the
section, or amendment thereto, unless such penalty is specifically repealed
therein.
   SECTION 5: This Ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty or any
action based on any general and permanent ordinance of the Village superseded
by this Ordinance incurred before the effective date of this Ordinance, nor any
suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the effective date of
this Ordinance for any offense committed or cause of action arising before the
effective date of this Ordinance and said prior general and permanent
ordinances as heretofore existing shall continue in full force and effect for
said limited purpose.
   SECTION 6: The Code hereby adopted is intended to codify and thereby
supersede all general and permanent ordinances of the Village of Lake
Barrington passed on or before August 20, 1996, and to the extent that any
general and permanent ordinance of the Village has not been included in said
Code, by oversight or otherwise, said omitted ordinance(s) shall continue in
full force and effect until their inclusion herein.
   SECTION 7: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect on September 1,
1996, which date is not less than ten (10) days from and after its passage,
approval and publication in pamphlet form pursuant to law.
   SECTION 8: The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish
this Ordinance and the Lake Barrington Municipal Code hereby adopted in book or
pamphlet form.
   Presented, read and passed by the Acting President and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois, on a roll call vote at a
duly called regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees on the 20th day
of August, 1996, and deposited and filed in the Office of the Clerk of said
Village on said date.
ROLL CALL VOTE:
YEAS:   Trustees Anderson, DeJesu, DeSalvo, Lovett, Schofield, and Acting
President Larson
NAYS:   None
ABSENT:   None
ABSTAIN:   None
APPROVED by the Acting President of the Village of Lake Barrington,
Illinois, this 23rd day of August, 1996.
                                           
Acting Village President,
Village of Lake Barrington
ATTEST:
                                           
Village Clerk,
Village of Lake Barrington
Recorded in the Record of Ordinances
of the Village as Ordinance No. 96-O-09
                                          
Village Clerk,
Village of Lake Barrington
PUBLISHED IN PAMPHLET FORM THIS 23rd DAY OF August, 1996.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Lake Barrington.
This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as LAKE BARRINGTON
VILLAGE CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees
and shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter under the direction of the Village legal counsel, acting
for said Village Board of Trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this Village Code by title in any legal document. (1996 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of a general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
this Village Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this Village Code shall
make every effort to maintain this Code in an up-to-date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossing with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1996 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (1996 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or
other part of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to
be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or other part thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases or other parts be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the singular
number only or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has been
changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Lake
Barrington.
CODE: The Municipal Code of Lake Barrington, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The County of Lake, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
Village of Lake Barrington".
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the Village is hereby established as commencing
on May 1 of each year and ending on April 30 of the following year.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Lake Barrington".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
directly to the consumer.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Lake Barrington, County of Lake, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The Village President may be referred to as Mayor of the
Village. The term "Village President" as used in any ordinance, resolution,
motion or other action of the corporate authorities shall be construed as
meaning the Mayor; the term "Mayor" wherever so used shall be construed to mean
the Village President; and the title "Mayor" as used in the minutes of the
corporate authorities or any other official document shall be construed as
meaning "Village President".
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (Ord. 60-O-14, 7-27-1960; Ord. 63-O-61, 9-3-1963; 1996 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Fine: Except as otherwise provided in this code, any person violating
any provision of this code shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00), nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this code or of failure to
comply with any requirement thereof, or of violating any permit, any approval,
or any directive issued under the provisions of this code shall, in addition to
the fines and other penalties provided, be obligated to reimburse the village
for its attorney fees to the extent permitted by law, court costs, court
reporter costs, expert witness fees, and all other out of pocket costs incurred
by the village in the prosecution of said violation(s), or in the collection of
unpaid fines as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Collection: A default in the payment of any fine, or any unpaid
installment thereof, imposed pursuant to any provision of this code may be
collected by any means authorized for the collection of money judgments. The
village attorney is authorized to retain attorney(s) and private collection
agent(s) for the purpose of collecting any default in the payment of any such
fine, or any unpaid installment(s) thereof, and any fees or costs incurred by
the village with respect to such attorney(s) or private collection agent(s)
retained by the village attorney for this purpose shall be an obligation of and
be charged to the party or parties obligated to pay such fine or the unpaid
installment(s) thereof.
   D.   Injunction: The village may make application to the circuit court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this code and such other order(s) as
the circuit court deems necessary to secure compliance with this code. Any
person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this code may be
enjoined by the circuit court from future violations and may also be required
by the circuit court to restore the location of the violation in question to
the condition existing prior to commission of the violation or to bear the
expense of such restoration.
   E.   Other Actions: Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the
village from instituting any other action, either legal or equitable, against
any "person", as defined in this title, for violating any provision of this
code, and such other enforcement action(s) is also hereby authorized. The
penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to, and not in lieu of,
any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise imposed or
conferred herein or by law.
   F.   Joint And Several Liability: The owner of record, beneficiaries,
general agent and/or contractor for the building, premises and/or property
where such violation has been committed or shall exist, and the lessee or
tenant of an entire building, premises or property, or any part thereof and any
other person who assists in such violation shall all be jointly and severally
liable for any such violation.
   G.   Supervision Or Conditional Discharge Authorized: Notwithstanding
anything contained in this code to the contrary, any court of competent
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter an order of supervision or
conditional discharge as provided by the Illinois unified code of corrections,
730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq., for any violation of any
provision of this code, or any other ordinance of the village. (Ord. 2010-O-18,
11-3-2010)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues or
condition remains uncorrected unless otherwise specifically provided in this
code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1996 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Functions
1-5-2: Oath; Salary
1-5-3: Village President
1-5-4: Meetings Of The Village President And Board Of Trustees
1-5-5: Rules Of Order
1-5-6: Rules For Public Hearings
1-5-7: Participation In Meetings Via Electronic Means
1-5-8: Public Comments At Public Meetings
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1, 5/3-5-2, 5/3-11-1 et seq., 5/3-12-1 et seq., 5/3-14-1 et
  seq.
1-5-1: ELECTION; FUNCTIONS:
The board of trustees, consisting of six (6) trustees and the village
president, shall be elected to the office for four (4) year terms, according to
the method provided by statute 1 . This board shall be the legislative
department of the village government and shall perform such duties and have
such powers as may be delegated by statute to it. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS.
1-5-2: OATH; SALARY 1 :
The members of the board of trustees shall take oath of office prescribed by
statute 2  and shall receive such compensation as may be provided by ordinance.
(1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. See section 1-6-2 of this title for bond requirements.
2 4. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-5-3: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The village president shall be the presiding officer
of all regular and special meetings of the board of trustees and at all times
when the board meets as a committee of the whole.
   B.   Authority: Except as otherwise provided by this code or by statute, the
village president shall be and is hereby authorized to hire, supervise and
discharge, as he or she deems appropriate, all employees of the village and all
such persons shall perform their duties subject to his or her direction. (Ord.
93-O-13, 5-18-1993)
   C.   Expenditure Authority: The Village President shall be and is hereby
authorized to engage the services of the Village Attorney(s), Village Engineer
(s), or other consultants, and to make purchases of material, equipment,
services or supplies and other expenditures authorized by the annual
appropriation ordinance then in effect, provided that each such purchase or
expenditure or matter that will create an obligation in excess of Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) shall first be authorized by the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Lake Barrington, unless otherwise provided by said
Board. (1996 Code; amd. Ord. 93-O-13, 5-18-1993; Ord. 2005-O-23, 8-2-2005; Ord.
2023-O-16, 6-13-2023)
1-5-4: MEETINGS OF THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular monthly meetings of the president and
board of trustees of the village shall be held on the first and third Tuesday
of each month of the year at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. at the municipal center
at 23860 North Old Barrington Road, Lake Barrington, Illinois. Notice of such
regular meetings shall be required by posting within the municipal center.
   B.   Rescheduled Monthly Meetings: The president and board of trustees at
any meeting may reschedule one or more regular monthly meetings by motion or
resolution duly made, seconded and passed by a majority of the corporate
authorities then holding office, and by causing notice to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village at least ten (10) days in
advance of such change(s).
   C.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Call Of Special Meeting: The village president or any three (3)
village trustees may call special meetings of the board of trustees by a
written call filed with the village clerk at least forty eight (48) hours prior
to the time specified for such meeting.
      2.   Written Notice; Service: At least forty eight (48) hours' written
notice of such special meeting shall be given to the trustees by the village
clerk, which notice shall specify the time and purpose of such meeting and
shall be delivered to each member of the board of trustees personally if such
trustee can be found and, if such trustee cannot be found, then by leaving a
copy of such notice at the home of such board member in the presence of an
adult member of the family of the board member.
      3.   Posting Of Notice: Notice of special meetings, with the agenda,
shall be posted at the municipal center within the village forty eight (48)
hours before the scheduled meeting.
      4.   Meeting Without Notice: Special meetings may be held without the
required notice to members when all members of the board are present in person
or with consent in writing to the holding of such meeting. Such written consent
shall be filed with the village clerk prior to the beginning of the meeting.
      5.   Full Attendance, Regular Meeting: Any special meeting attended by
all of the members of the board of trustees shall be a regular meeting for the
transaction of any business that may come before such meeting.
   D.   Place For Meetings: All meetings of the board of trustees shall be held
at the municipal center including special and adjourned meetings, or such other
places as shall be designated by the board.
   E.   Meetings Open To Public: All official meetings of the board of
trustees, whether regular, adjourned or special, shall be open to the public,
except where authorized by the Illinois open meetings act 1 . (Ord. 2007-O-12,
8-7-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-5-5: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the board of trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the board of trustees unless there be
present at such special meeting as many members of the board of trustees as
were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as provided by
statute.
   B.   Resolutions: Any resolutions submitted to the board of trustees shall
be reduced to writing before being voted upon on request of any two (2) members
of the board.
   C.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the president or a member of
the board shall address that body at any regular or special meeting except upon
consent of a majority of the members.
   D.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
   E.   Robert's Rules Of Order: The latest edition of "Robert's Rules Of
Order" shall govern the deliberations of the board of trustees, except when in
conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
   F.   Quorum: A majority of the trustees or three (3) trustees and the
village president shall constitute a quorum to do business. (1996 Code)
   G.   Committees:
      1.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees
of the board of trustees:
      Community development
Finance and human resources
      Intergovernmental affairs
      Natural resources
      Public safety
      Public works
      Rules
      2.   Special Committees: Special committees shall be created, from time
to time, as directed by the village president.
      3.   Appointment: All committees shall be appointed by the village
president. (Ord. 2007-O-24, 12-4-2007)
   H.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the board of trustees or of any committee thereof. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall be punished as provided in
this code 1 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this title.
1-5-6: RULES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   A "public hearing" is a formal proceeding mandated by law for the
purpose of taking public comments and/or evidence with a view to formulating a
decision or recommendation on an issue within the jurisdiction of the public
body. A "public hearing" is distinguished from a "meeting" in that all hearings
are meetings, but not all meetings are hearings.
   B.   The following rules shall be applicable to all public hearings required
by law to be held by the board of trustees, or by any commission or board,
committee, subcommittee, or other public bodies of the village of Lake
Barrington:
      1.   All hearings of the public body shall be held in compliance with the
Illinois open meetings act.
      2.   For the purpose of these rules the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
DOCUMENT: The complete original (or a complete copy when the original is not
available) and any nonidentical copy (whether different from the original
because of notes made on the copy or otherwise) of any writing, record, or
other submittal, including, but not limited to, a book, pamphlet, binder,
periodical, letter, memorandum, telegram, report, progress notes, interoffice
or intraoffice communication, handwritten or other note, working paper,
transcription, draft, application, permit, photograph, data sheet, data
processing sheet, computer printout, microfilm, microfiche, correspondence,
notebooks, diaries, desk calendars, charts, survey, plat, photographs and
records of any kind, as well as all computer readable data compilations,
including, but not limited to, tapes, diskettes, cards, cassettes, CDs, and all
other electronic or mechanical devices which contain information, as well as
all attachments, exhibits, enclosures, or documents affixed to or referred to
in such documents.
INTERESTED PERSON: Any person participating in the public hearing, other than
the petitioner, who has previously filed a written appearance or has had an
attorney file a written appearance on their behalf.
PARTY, PERSON OR PERSONS: Any natural person, proprietorship, private
corporation, professional corporation, public corporation, municipal
corporation, partnership, association, state or local governmental entity,
governmental agency, political subdivision, group, association, committee or
any other organization.
PETITIONER: The petitioner and/or applicant(s) or person(s) making a request of
the public body for its consideration and decision or recommendation.
RELATED TO, RELATING TO, OR RELATIVE TO: Directly or indirectly mentioning or
describing, pertaining to, being directly or indirectly connected with, or
reflecting upon a stated subject matter.
USABLE: Legible, audible, or visible, depending on the nature of the document.
      3.   The chair may impose reasonable limitations on evidence or testimony
presented by persons and parties, such as time limits and barring repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony, which ruling may be overruled by a majority
of at least a quorum of the public body. Time limits, if imposed, shall be
fair, generous and equally administered. The public body shall not be bound by
strict rules of evidence; however, irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitious evidence shall not be admissible. The chair shall rule on all
questions related to the admissibility of evidence, which ruling may be
overruled by a majority of at least a quorum of the public body. The chair may
also impose reasonable conditions on the hearing process after giving due
consideration to factors present in particular proceedings, including, but not
limited to, the following:
         a.   The complexity of the issue.
         b.   Whether the witness possesses special expertise.
         c.   Whether the testimony reflects a matter of taste or personal
opinion or concerns a disputed issue of fact.
         d.   The degree to which the witness's testimony relates to the
factors to be considered in approving or denying the proposal.
         e.   Such other factors appropriate for the hearing.
Again, any such rulings may be overruled by a majority of at least a quorum of
the public body.
      4.   The chair may take such actions as are required to maintain an
orderly and civil hearing.
      5.   Proof of lawful notice shall be introduced into evidence before the
public body.
      6.   A record of proceedings at the public hearing shall be made as
directed by the public body.
      7.   A petitioner may appear on his or her own behalf or may be
represented by an attorney. Any attorney representing any party or objector(s)
at such public hearing shall file a written appearance and include thereon the
names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all of his or her clients as
specified below.
      8.   The municipality shall be an interested party in every public
hearing, but need not appear.
      9.   In addition to the petitioner, any person may appear and participate
at the hearing.
      10.   Persons participating shall identify themselves for the record,
either orally or in writing, and indicate if an attorney represents them.
      11.   All persons in attendance shall have an opportunity to be heard.
Any person who also wishes to appear as an "interested person" for himself or
herself or by an attorney with the right to cross examine others at the hearing
must complete and file with the village clerk at the village of Lake Barrington
municipal center a written appearance form which shall be made available by the
village clerk during her office's regular hours. Such appearance form shall
provide the following information relative to the interested party in legible
form:
         a.   Subject matter;
         b.   Name, address, telephone number and fax number of interested
party;
         c.   E-mail address, if any, of interested party;
         d.   Name, address, telephone number and fax number of interested
party's attorney, if any.
If the appearance is by an attorney, the name(s), address(es), and telephone
number(s) of all such attorney's clients shall be provided in legible form.
      12.   After such a written appearance has been filed by any interested
person and/or their attorney, the petitioner(s) and/or applicant(s), or their
attorney(s), shall send to such interested person, or to their attorney, if one
has filed an appearance on behalf of such interested person, usable copies of
any documents of any nature thereafter filed with the village by the petitioner
(s) and/or the applicant(s) or by their attorney(s), and such copies shall be
sent to such interested person(s) by facsimile, overnight courier, or regular
mail within seven (7) business days after the originals of such documents are
filed with the village.
      13.   The examination of a witness shall not be used by the questioner to
offer testimony or evidence of the questioner.
      14.   All persons offering testimony at a hearing shall testify under
oath. An attorney shall be sworn if he or she offers testimony but not if he or
she is questioning witnesses, summarizing testimony of witnesses, or addressing
the public body.
      15.   The order of presentation of evidence at a public hearing shall
generally be as follows, but may be modified as determined appropriate by the
chair:
         a.   Identification of petitioner and interested persons.
         b.   Submittal of proof of notice.
         c.   Testimony and other evidence by petitioner.
         d.   Public body examination of petitioner's witnesses and other
evidence.
         e.   Cross examination of petitioner's witnesses and other evidence by
interested persons.
         f.   Testimony and other evidence by interested persons.
         g.   Public body examination of interested persons' witnesses and
other evidence.
         h.   Cross examination of interested persons' witnesses and other
evidence by petitioner or applicant.
         i.   In some cases reexamination may be allowed.
         j.   Report by staff, if any.
         k.   Summary/closing by petitioner.
         l.   Summary/closing by interested persons.
         m.   Rebuttal/closing by petitioner.
      16.   At the conclusion of an evidentiary portion of the public hearing,
the public body may, among other actions, move to close the evidentiary portion
of the public hearing and then deliberate its decision on the matter under
consideration, on the evidence presented, or continue the hearing to a date,
time and location certain.
      17.   A member who is not present at a public hearing may vote on a
matter, provided such member has heard an audiotape or read the transcript of
the public hearing, reviewed the evidence presented at the hearing, and
otherwise thoroughly familiarized himself or herself with the matter under
consideration.
      18.   A written decision shall be prepared which shall include findings
of fact and the public body's recommendation or decision based upon the record.
(Ord. 2004-O-21, 9-7-2004)
1-5-7: PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS VIA ELECTRONIC MEANS:
Members of any public body of the village, including, but not limited to,
members of the village board, may participate in meetings via electronic means,
provided no such participation in such meetings shall occur via such means
unless in compliance with the following rules:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to prescribe rules for the
participation by members of a public body of the village in meetings of such
public body in accordance with the Illinois open meetings act when such meeting
is conducted wholly or partially via electronic means. These rules for
participation in meetings by members of any public body of the village via
electronic means are intended to be consistent with and supplement the Illinois
open meetings act.
   B.   Minutes Of Meetings: Minutes of the public body of the village shall
reflect and record whether the members were physically present or present by
means of video or audio conference.
   C.   Limitations On Participation In Meetings Via Electronic Means: The
following rules shall apply for the participation in any meeting at which any
member of a public body of the village is participating through the use of
audio, video, or other electronic conference means:
      1.   If a quorum of the members of the public body of the village is
physically present as required by the Illinois open meetings act, a member of
that body may attend the meeting by other means if the member is prevented from
physically attending because of: a) personal illness or disability, b)
employment purposes or the business of the public body, or c) a family or other
emergency. "Other means", for the purposes of this section, shall mean
attendance by video, audio, or other electronic means.
      2.   A quorum of members of a public body of the village must be
physically present at the location of an open meeting. A quorum of members of a
public body of the village must also be physically present at the location of a
closed meeting. Other members who are not physically present at any open or
closed meeting of such a public body may participate in the meeting by other
means consistent with the rules set forth in this section and the Illinois open
meetings act.
      3.   If a member of a public body of the village wishes to attend a
meeting by other means, the member must notify the recording secretary or clerk
of the public body before the meeting, unless such advance notice is
impractical.
      4.   At the commencement of any such meeting of a public body of the
village, the presiding officer shall announce such method of attendance of
those participating by other means to the public and the reason.
      5.   If the presiding officer of a public body of the village attends the
meeting through the use of other means, he or she shall vacate the chair and a
duly elected or appointed temporary chair who is physically present shall
preside.
      6.   When one or more members of a public body attend a meeting of such
public body via other means, all votes shall be by roll call.
      7.   No more than two (2) members of a public body of the village may
attend a meeting through the use of other means at the same remote location.
      8.   When other means are used to allow a member of a public body to
participate in a meeting without being physically present, each time a member
using such other means wishes to speak, such member shall endeavor to identify
himself or herself by name and be recognized by the presiding officer before
speaking.
      9.   The village staff or consultants of the village are authorized to
participate in the proceedings of any public body of the village by other
means.
   D.   Member(s) Considered Present: Any member of a public body of the
village shall be considered present wherein the member is present by other
means wherein voices are received by any location. (Ord. 2006-O-32, 9-5-2006,
eff. 1-1-2007)
1-5-8: PUBLIC COMMENTS AT PUBLIC MEETINGS:
   A.   All public meetings of public bodies of the village shall be and are
hereby declared to be a limited public forum for comments by members of the
public as required by the Illinois open meetings act, but any statements made
and/or opinions expressed by members of the public in attendance at such public
meeting(s) do not reflect the views of the village or of any officer, employee,
or public body of the village, but rather, represent only the views of the
persons making such statements and/or presenting such opinions who are solely
responsible for the content thereof.
   B.   Any member of the public making comments at any public meeting(s) of
any public body of the village shall do so in a manner so as to not disturb
and/or disrupt any of the proceedings of such public meeting(s).
   C.   All members of the public in attendance at a public meeting of any
public body of the village shall have an opportunity to be heard during that
portion or those portions of the public body's agenda designated for public
comment on the agenda for such meeting, or if there is no such item on the
agenda, then at the end of the public body's agenda prior to adjournment. Any
member of the public offering comments at a public meeting of any public body
of the village shall make such comments during that portion or those portions
of the public body's agenda designated for public comment on the agenda for
such meeting, or if there is none, then at the end of the public body's agenda
prior to adjournment. Any member of the public wishing to offer comments at
such a public meeting shall wait to make such comments until recognized by the
chair for such purpose, provided, however, the chair of the public body, or the
public body by a vote of at least a majority, may move the time designated for
public comment(s) on a particular issue to what the chair or public body deems
to be a more appropriate or convenient place on the agenda of the public body.
   D.   The chair of the public body, or the public body by a vote of at least
a majority of a quorum, may limit public comments to maintain, encourage, and
foster civility. The chair may take such actions as are required to maintain an
orderly and civil meeting. The chair may declare as out of order patently
offensive or obscene comments or gestures.
   E.   The chair may impose reasonable limitations on public comment presented
at any public meeting, such as time limits and/or limitations on repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony, which ruling(s) may be overruled by a
majority of at least a quorum of the public body. Time limits, if imposed,
shall be fair and even handedly administered. The chair may rule on all
questions related to the relevancy of any public comment(s), which ruling(s)
may be overruled by a majority of at least a quorum of the public body. The
chair may also impose reasonable conditions and/or limitations on public
comments, including, but not limited to, time limitations, after giving due
consideration to factors present in particular proceedings, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      1.   The complexity of the issue;
      2.   Whether the member of the public offering comments possesses special
expertise;
      3.   Whether the public comments are a matter of taste or personal
opinion or concern an issue or proposal;
      4.   The degree to which the person's comments relate to the factors
which can be legally considered relative to any particular issue or proposal.
   F.   Any member of the public making comments at a public meeting shall be
required to sign in and identify in a general way the issue(s) on which such
person wishes to comment.
   G.   A member of the public may appear and make comments at a public meeting
on his or her own behalf or may be represented by an attorney. Any attorney
representing any party or objector(s) at such public meeting shall file a
written appearance and include thereon the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of all of his or her clients.
   H.   Any member of the public attending, participating in, and/or speaking
at such a public village meeting should recognize the fact that, pursuant to
the Illinois open meetings act, the village is legally required to allow the
recording of such public meetings and those in attendance and cannot prevent
and/or control the dissemination, use, and/or republication of such recording
(s). (Ord. 2011-O-04, 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Inauguration
1-6-2: Bond Requirements
1-6-3: Expenses And Compensation
1-6-4: Indemnification Of Officers
1-6-5: Village Administrator
1-6-6: Village Clerk/Executive Assistant And Building Permit Administrator/
Deputy Village Clerk
1-6-7: Village Treasurer
1-6-8: Village Collector
1-6-9: Village Engineer
1-6-10: Village Attorney
1-6-11: Village Accountant
1-6-12: Employee Policy Manual
1-6-1: INAUGURATION:
The date for inauguration for newly elected Municipal officers shall occur at
the first regular or special meeting of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village in the month of May following such election in April. (Ord. 87-O-08, 5-
4-1987)
1-6-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Before entering upon the duties of their respective
offices, all Village officers, except Trustees of whom no bond shall be
required, shall execute a bond with security to be approved by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village. The bond shall be payable to the Village, unless
otherwise provided by law, in the following sums and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of their office and the payment of all money
received by such officer, according to law and also the ordinances of the
Village:
 
Village President                                             $50,000.00
Village Administrator                                         500,000.00
Village Clerk                                                 50,000.00
Village Treasurer                                             500,000.00
Village Accountant                                            500,000.00
All other Village officers and employees, whether elected or  10,000.00
appointed, except Trustees, of whom no bond shall be required
 
The bond so required may provide that the obligation of the sureties shall not
extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure or closing of any bank
organized and operating either under the laws of the State or the United States
wherein such officer has placed funds in his custody if the bank has been
approved by the Corporate Authorities as a depository for these funds.
   B.   Type Of Security: Security may be provided either by personal or
corporate surety. If security is provided by a corporate surety, only one
surety shall be required and any company duly authorized to do surety business
in the State shall be sufficient. If security is provided by personal surety,
two (2) sureties shall be required. A personal surety may be any elector
residing within the Village owning property having a value of at least equal to
the amount of the bond. If a bond is executed by a surety or sureties as
provided for in this subsection, the requirement as to the approval of the
Corporate Authorities as to the security of the bond shall have been deemed
satisfied and in such case the bond premium shall be paid by the Village.
   C.   Filing: The bonds hereinbefore provided for shall be filed with the
Village Clerk; except the bond of the Village Clerk, which shall be filed with
the Village Treasurer. (Ord. 2005-O-27, 9-6-2005; amd. Ord. 2023-O-27, 11-7-
2023)
1-6-3: EXPENSES AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Expenses: All Village officers shall be reimbursed for any out of
pocket expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as Village officers
or while, or in connection with, attending to or carrying out Village business.
   B.   Compensation: The elected Village officers designated herein shall
receive compensation as salaries as fixed from time to time by the Board of
Trustees, as distinguished from the expenses hereinabove provided for.
      1.   Village Trustee:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided below, effective upon the
commencement of their respective terms on or after May 1, 2009, the
compensation of each Trustee of the Village shall be the sum of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees
which he or she attends, and for each regular or special meeting of the
Committee of the Whole of said Board of Trustees which he or she attends, which
compensation shall be paid the following month.
         b.   Effective upon the commencement of their respective terms after
May 1, 2017, the compensation of each Trustee of the Village shall be, and is
fixed at, the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month, which
compensation shall be paid to each such Trustee every month during the term of
such Trustee.
      2.   Village President:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided below, effective upon the
commencement of the Village President's term on or after May 1, 2009, the
compensation of the Village President shall be, and is fixed at the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each regular or special meeting of the Board of
Trustees which he or she attends, and for each regular or special meeting of
the Committee of the Whole of said Board of Trustees which he or she attends,
which compensation shall be paid the following month.
         b.   Effective upon the commencement of the Village President's term
after May 1, 2017, the compensation of the Village President shall be, and is
fixed at, the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month, which
compensation shall be paid to the Village President each month during the term
of said Village President.
      3.   Compensation Of Employees Generally: Any person or persons employed
by the Village shall be compensated at a level not to exceed that established
by the annual appropriation ordinance then in effect. (Ord. 2016-O-02, 2-3-
2016)
   C.   Payment Of Compensation: All compensation or salaries of all Village
officials and employees shall be paid monthly. The Village Treasurer shall
prepare a payroll list monthly which, when approved by the Board of Trustees,
signed by the Village President and Village Clerk, shall authorize the issuance
of checks for the salaries indicated to be due. (Ord. 2017-O-14, 6-7-2017)
1-6-4: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    EMPLOYEE: All employees within the Village.
   OFFICER: Any elected or appointed official of the Village.
   B.   Claim Or Action: If any claim or action is instituted against any
present officer or employee or former officer or employee of the Village based
on an injury allegedly arising out of an act or omission occurring within the
scope of his or her employment or official duties as such employee or officer,
the Village shall, to the extent permitted by law:
      1.   Appear and defend against the claim or action; and
      2.   Indemnify the officer or employee or former officer or employee for
his or her attorney fees and court costs incurred in the defense of such claim
or action; and
      3.   Indemnify the officer or employee or former officer or employee for
any judgment based on such claim or action; or
      4.   Indemnify the officer or employee or former officer or employee for
any compromise or settlement of such claim or action if approved in advance by
the Village; provided, however, that the Village shall not indemnify any
officer or employee for any portion of a judgment representing an award of
punitive or exemplary damages.
   C.   No Waiver Of Defenses: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
waiving any defense of the Village or its employees or officers, including, but
not limited to, any defense provided by the Illinois Local Governmental and
Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act 1  as it may exist from time to time,
in any action brought against the Village or such officer or employee.
   D.   Notice Required: The provisions of this section shall apply only where
the Village has been given notice of any actions brought against any Village
employee or officer, based upon any action of such employee or officer within
the scope of his or her authority as such. Any Village officer or employee
against whom a claim or action is instituted shall notify the Village of such
claim, in writing, within thirty (30) days of service of process upon such
officer or employee. (Ord. 87-O-22, 11-2-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. 745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.
1-6-5: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Position Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the position of
Village Administrator who shall be an at-will employee of the Village and who
may be, but shall not be required to be, a Village resident. The Village
Administrator shall be appointed by the Village President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village Administrator shall be the Chief
Administrative Officer of the Village under the direction of the Corporate
Authorities. The Village Administrator shall be responsible to and report to
the Village President and Board of Trustees. The Village Administrator shall be
responsible to the Corporate Authorities for the proper administration of all
affairs of the Village, including but not limited to managing, in a timely and
professional manner, the day-to-day operations and business of the Village and
its personnel, preparing written reports and recommendations to the Village
Board, and implementing and enforcing all policies, directives, laws and
ordinances of the Village, excepting such affairs or matters as the Village
President and/or the Board of Trustees may from time to time determine to be
under their direct control and supervision. All provisions herein contained
shall be subject to the exceptions set forth in the immediately preceding
sentence.
   B.   Term, Removal, Compensation: The Village Administrator may be removed
at any time, with or without cause, by the Village President, with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees. The Village Administrator shall receive
as compensation a monthly salary in such amount as approved by the Village
Board from time to time, plus such bonus(es) as may be determined by the
Village Board from time to time. The fidelity bond of the Village Administrator
shall be in the amount determined by the Village Board.
   C.   Acting Administrator: In the event of the temporary absence or
disability of the Village Administrator, or in the event the position becomes
vacant for any reason, the Village President may act as Administrator or may
appoint an Acting Village Administrator who shall serve until the Administrator
returns to his or her duties or until a regular appointment of a successor is
made.
   D.   Expenditure Authority: The Village Administrator shall be and is hereby
authorized to engage the services of the Village Attorney(s), Village Engineer
(s), or other consultants, and to make purchases of material, equipment,
services or supplies and other expenditures authorized by the annual
appropriation ordinance then in effect, provided that each such purchase or
expenditure or matter that will create an obligation in excess of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) shall first be authorized by the Corporate Authorities,
unless otherwise specifically provided by said Corporate Authorities.
   E.   Duties, Responsibilities, And Powers: The Village Administrator shall
be responsible to perform certain duties and responsibilities on behalf of the
Village in a professional and timely manner, including but not limited to the
following:
      1.   Administer and enforce all policies, directives, laws, and
ordinances adopted by the Corporate Authorities;
      2.   Act as the Village's Chief Administrative Officer responsible for
managing the day to day administrative operations and business of the Village
based on the Corporate Authorities' direction, as well as Village personnel,
preparing written reports and recommendations to the Village Board, and
implementing and enforcing all policies, directives, laws and ordinances of the
Village;
      3.   Administer and enforce Village rules, policies, and procedures
relative to Village personnel, including but not limited to those contained in
the Village's Employee Policy Manual, as may be amended from time to time, and
in accordance with Village Board directives, and recommend to the Corporate
Authorities of the Village the hiring of and/or the removal of employees of the
Village, subject to approval by the Corporate Authorities, and provide
recommendations relative to salary, benefits, discipline, job duties, and staff
development;
      4.   Develop and maintain effective working relationships with Village
staff, Village officials, and Village residents, and provide proper and
appropriate guidance and leadership to Village employees and the Village Board;
      5.   Provide leadership and direction to employees and independent
contractors engaged by the Village, evaluating their performance and
compensation on an annual basis, and on not less than an annual basis,
providing to the Board of Trustees a written evaluation of and recommendation
for any revised compensation levels, and/or any suggested disciplinary action,
for all Village staff;
      6.   Work closely with the Village's Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals relative to issues pertaining to land use and building development, and
attending the meetings of such public bodies, or delegating to Village staff
members the attendance thereof;
      7.   Oversee and monitor compliance of Village residents with building,
subdivision and zoning ordinances;
      8.   Act as the Village's Code Enforcement Officer and ensure that all
Code enforcement issues are addressed;
      9.   Act as the Village's Emergency Services Disaster Agency (ESDA)
Coordinator to ensure the safety of Village staff and residents;
      10.   Oversee marketing and public relations matters relating to Village
services, activities, events, and programs. Ensure communication consultant and
select employees follow through on strategic public relations goals, including
managing the Village's brand;
      11.   Manage and oversee the production and delivery of the quarterly
Village newsletter;
      12.   Recommend creative solutions for advancing the Village's mission,
improving and streamlining Village services, maintaining the quality of life
and well-being of residents;
      13.   Ensure the proper administration and management of all Village
affairs and maintain the high customer service standards;
      14.   Oversee Village property and grounds, including the Village
Municipal Center (i.e., the Village Hall), Freier Farm, and Fetherling Park to
ensure that such Village property is maintained in neat, clean, sanitary, safe,
and proper operating condition;
      15.   Serve as the point of contact on all legal matters pertaining to
the Village and work closely with the Village Attorney to ensure a proper
resolution of Village and personnel matters;
      16.   Perform routine maintenance of the Village Hall and grounds as
skills allow and engage the services of appropriate contractors when needed to
perform other specialized tasks for the proper maintenance of Village property;
      17.   Maintain confidentiality relative to sensitive information and
Village matters;
      18.   Accurately interpret and apply administrative philosophies of the
Village and clearly communicate such information to Village officials and the
general public;
      19.   Work with the Village Treasurer and Village Accountant relative to,
and be responsible for the preparation of the Village's annual operation and
capital improvement budgets and submit them, together with the Village
Administrator's recommendations relative thereto, to the Corporate Authorities
for their review and approval, and oversee the administration and execution of
the annual Village budget and financial planning processes, including the
annual operation and capital improvement budgets for all Municipal departments,
including but not limited to the monitoring of all Village expenditures,
revenues, and fund transfers;
      20.   Prepare the Village's annual budget and its annual appropriations
ordinance and be responsible for the administration and implementation of such
budget and such appropriations ordinance;
      21.   Prepare the annual tax levy ordinance;
      22.   Facilitate annual financial and strategic planning processes via
the Village's Capital Improvements Program and Financial Plan;
      23.   Recommend capital improvements;
      24.   Recommend ordinances deemed necessary, expedient, and/or in the
best interests of the Village and its residents;
      25.   Make, in the ordinary course of business, all purchases of
services, equipment, material and supplies necessary for the Village as
provided for in the annual appropriations ordinance, provided that all
expenditures shall be submitted for payment to the Corporate Authorities,
except as otherwise provided by this Code or by the Corporate Authorities;
      26.   Prepare long range capital expenditure programs for the Village for
consideration and approval in concept by the Corporate Authorities;
      27.   Recommend to the Corporate Authorities the adoption of such
measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety or
welfare of the community, or for the improvement of the services rendered by
the Village when such measures require action by the Corporate Authorities;
      28.   Furnish the Corporate Authorities with such background support
information as may be requested on any subject to enable them to make decision
(s), and keep the Village Board apprised of Village issues through regular
communication, providing advice on current Village issues, conditions and
requirements;
      29.   Oversee and manage the preparation of Board meeting agendas and
packets, attend all regular and special meetings of the Corporate Authorities,
and take part in the discussion(s) of all matters coming before them, making
recommendations based upon such discussions;
      30.   Attend meetings of the Village committees, commissions, and boards
as necessary;
      31.   Be responsible for, handle in an effective, professional, and
courteous manner, and investigate all public inquiries and complaints received
in relation to matters concerning the administration of the Village and the
services provided by the Village, and direct communications activities to keep
the public informed of Village plans, activities and operations;
      32.   Track and report on County, State and Federal legislation that
could impact the Village and provide recommendations for addressing issues;
      33.   Assist the Village President and Board of Trustees on special
projects;
      34.   Village infrastructure and other capital projects:
         a.   Initiate and oversee planning, engineering and construction for
Village special service areas;
         b.   Oversee the operations of the Village water and sewer systems;
         c.   Prepare special reports regarding Municipal water and sewer
systems as requested by the Village President and Board of Trustees;
         d.   Oversee the Village's road improvement, drainage, and eco-
restoration projects;
         e.   Develop and maintain ongoing working knowledge of critical
components of infrastructure projects.
      35.   Community service:
         a.   Serve as Village representative in the community, including
attending local, regional, State events, meetings, and conferences, including
but not limited to the Lake County Council of Mayors, the Lake County Municipal
League, the Barrington Chamber of Commerce, Flint Creek/Spring Creek Watershed
Partnership, and the Barrington Area Council of Governments;
         b.   Stay abreast of matters of interest to the Village;
         c.   Be approachable to the residents, the stakeholders of our
community.
      36.   Provide the necessary time for and perform such tasks and/or
duties, and exercise all powers delegated to him or her by ordinances of this
Village; by the Village President and/or by the Board of Trustees; and/or by
Corporate Authorities of the Village as required to complete any of the
foregoing tasks and/or duties and to perform such other duties as requested and
properly assigned to him or her by the Village President and/or by the Board of
Trustees from time to time;
      37.   Perform all duties and exercise all powers delegated to him or her
by the Village President and/or by the Board of Trustees;
      38.   Negotiate contracts on behalf of the Village, including contracts
for garbage and recycling services, police services, road maintenance, and snow
removal and ice control, and other contracts, and present recommendations for
such contracts to the Village Board for their consideration and approval.
   F.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While
performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit
for extended periods of time; use hands to finger, handle, and feel; reach with
hands and arms; and talk and hear. The employee frequently is required to stand
and walk. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to thirty five (35)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include the ability to
adjust focus. (Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-O-24, 11-13-2018; Ord.
2023-O-02, 1-3-2023)
1-6-6: VILLAGE CLERK/EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT AND BUILDING PERMIT ADMINISTRATOR/
DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Village Clerk/Executive Assistant:
      1.   Duties Generally: The duties of the Village Clerk/Executive
Assistant shall be those duties as provided by Illinois Statutes or such duties
as may be provided by this Code or other ordinances of this Village, and such
duties as may be assigned by the Village President and/or Board of Trustees to
serve the residents of the Village by assisting the Village Administrator and
Village Board in performing day-to-day duties of the Village Clerk, customer
service, communication, and administrative operations in a professional,
timely, efficient, and accurate manner, and the Village Clerk/Executive
Assistant shall carry out the combined duties as described herein, and such
other duties as may be properly assigned to him or her by the Village
Administrator, all under the supervision of the Village Administrator.
      2.   Appointment: The Village Clerk/Executive Assistant shall be an at-
will employee of the Village appointed by the Village President, with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees and shall serve under the supervision,
direction and control of the Village Administrator and shall also serve as
Executive Assistant to the Village Administrator. The Village Clerk/Executive
Assistant may be, but shall not be required to be, a Village resident. (Ord.
2017-O-19, 9-5-2017)
      3.   Compensation: The Village Clerk/Executive Assistant shall receive as
compensation such salary as determined by the Board of Trustees from time to
time. (Ord. 2018-O-11, 6-6-2018)
      4.   Removal: Any person holding such Office of Village Clerk and the
related position of Executive Assistant may be removed from office at any time,
with or without cause, by the Village President, with the concurrence of the
Board of Trustees.
      5.   Specific Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and
responsibilities of the Village Clerk/Executive Assistant shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Serve as the official keeper of the records for the Village and
maintain a complete and accurate record of Village Board meeting and Committee
of the Whole meeting proceedings;
         b.   Provide administrative support to the Village Administrator and
the Village Board of Trustees for Village- related matters, including
disseminating important Village information;
         c.   Prepare, compile, and distribute materials, including agendas and
corresponding supporting documents for meetings of the Village Board;
         d.   Coordinate court reporter services, as required, serve as notary
public, and handle the coordination of certificates of liability insurance;
         e.   Prepare and file necessary statutory reports, oversee fiscal-year
scheduling requirements and a tentative calendar relative to appropriate and
tax levy matters, prevailing wage rates, sale of volume cap bonds, and track
letters of credit;
         f.   Post and/or publish as needed public meeting notices in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act and other statutory requirements;
         g.   Take minutes for Village Board and Committee of the Whole
meetings and other assigned meetings, and prepare minutes of such meetings for
approval by the Village Board and/or by the Committee of the Whole, as the case
may be;
         h.   Maintain official Village files relative to minutes and various
agendas;
         i.   Serve as the Village's primary Freedom of Information Act
("FOIA") Officer, process FOIA requests on a timely basis in compliance with
Illinois Statutes, and oversee FOIA compliance by other Village staff members;
         j.   Maintain custody of the Village Seal, file Oaths of Office, and
post and publish written notification(s) of public hearings;
         k.   Assist petitioners through the planning and zoning processes, as
requested by the Village's Administrator;
         l.   Perform, assist applicants, and handle the licensing processes
for obtaining liquor, food, business, massage establishment, and amusement
device licenses from the Village, including processing of applications, mailing
of annual renewal letters and license forms and applications, as well as serve
as liaison to various law enforcement agencies and the Illinois Liquor
Commission to process background checks of applicants and assure compliance
with the Illinois Liquor Code and this Code;
         m.   Handle the annual business license renewal process (March/April)
by confirming businesses in the business park with building owners, send out
business license renewal forms and invoices, and keep track of the status of
the Village's licensing of businesses located within the Village;
         n.   Oversee Village elections, provide election packets to
candidates, publish legal notices, certify candidates, file completed candidate
forms with Lake County, and serve as Deputy Registrar to register citizens to
vote;
         o.   Assist in the preparation of the Village newsletter and bulletin,
and update the official Village website relative to the posting of legal
notices, agendas, and approved minutes;
         p.   Assist with the day-to-day administrative operations of the
Village, including ordering and/or picking up office supplies, ensuring Village
equipment is operational, and work with vendors and/or Village staff to keep
the Village office and Municipal Center clean and well maintained;
         q.   Serve as customer service lead and assist with answering and
directing telephone calls, greeting visitors, processing complaints, assist the
public with the building permit application process, vehicle stickers, and yard
waste stickers, mail, and assist the public with and keep a calendar of all
reservations of Village facilities;
         r.   Assist the Village Administrator with special projects, including
meeting recording, Tree City/Arbor Day, and planning and executing of various
community events; and
         s.   Perform other duties as properly assigned by the Village
Administrator and Village Board of Trustees.
      6.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While
performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit
for extended periods of time; use hands to finger, handle, and feel; reach with
hands and arms; and talk and hear. The employee frequently is required to stand
and walk. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to thirty five (35)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include the ability to
adjust focus.
   B.   Building Permit Administrator/Deputy Village Clerk:
      1.   Position Created; General Duties: There is hereby created the
position of Building Permit Administrator/Deputy Village Clerk who shall be an
at-will employee of the Village and shall serve the residents of the Village of
Lake Barrington by assisting the Village Administrator and acting as liaison
with the Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals in managing the day-to-day
responsibilities for building, zoning, planning, and other activities relative
to land use in the Village as well as implementing zoning regulations, building
codes, planning guidelines, and permit issuance in a professional, efficient,
timely, and accurate manner. Additionally, the person holding this position of
employment with the Village serves in the Office of Deputy Village Clerk to
assist the Village Clerk with select duties. The person holding this position
of employment shall be subject, as an employee, to hiring and termination by
the Village President. Such employee may be, but need not be, a resident of the
Village to hold the Office of Deputy Village Clerk. Such Deputy Village Clerk
shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required by law or
ordinance to be executed by the Village Clerk and affix the Seal of the Village
thereto, whenever required during any unavailability of the Village Clerk or
whenever such powers and duties have been so delegated by the Village Clerk.
      2.   Signing Documents: When signing any documents, the Deputy Village
Clerk shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed by the word "by" and
the Deputy Village Clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Village Clerk".
      3.   Specific Duties And Responsibilities: The powers and duties herein
described shall be exercised by such Building Permit Administrator in a
professional and timely manner, which duties and responsibilities shall include
but not be limited to the following:
         a.   Oversee and coordinate building plan review and inspection
services with select vendors, ensuring that the public has access to the
requisite building forms, applications, guidelines, and zoning maps;
         b.   Prepare, compile, and distribute materials, including agendas and
corresponding supporting documents for meetings of the Village Plan Commission
and Zoning Board of Appeals;
         c.   Forward copies of blueprints and documents for review, if
required, to the building inspector, engineers, Fire Department, and other
agencies, and track plans;
         d.   Monitor building permits that are near expiration and direct
follow-up status by the building inspector;
         e.   Oversee construction projects from the plan review process
through final occupancy, which includes permit fee calculation, job site plans,
permit issuance after approved plan review, special inspections, spot surveys,
as-builts, and confirm all final inspections and requirements and review file
for certificate of occupancy and bond refund requests;
         f.   Prepare and submit a semi-monthly report to the Township Assessor
with copies of building permits issued;
         g.   Organize and file completed, pending, and under-review building
permits;
         h.   Prepare monthly building permits issue form for the U.S. Census
reporting, and prepare miscellaneous permits issued for Comcast, NICOR, ComEd
utilities for maintenance, repair, and replacements;
         i.   Serve as point-of-contact for Code enforcement issues relating to
building, zoning, and property maintenance;
         j.   Attend and provide information for adjudication hearings relating
to ordinance enforcement, and the administration of the Village Code
Enforcement and Administrative Adjudication System;
         k.   Manage Building and Zoning Department activities, reviews,
inspections, consultants, including responding to correspondence, files,
reports, etc.;
         l.   Participate in the development of policies and procedures to
ensure the Village's programs reflect the best use of allocated departmental
funds;
         m.   Serve as the point of contact for State Fire Marshal's Office as
the registered elevator/conveyance coordinator for the Village and monitor
inspections conducted semi-annually by the Village's contracted elevator
inspector;
         n.   Act as liaison with outside agencies, consultants, Barrington
Countryside Fire Protection District, Wauconda Fire Department, Cuba Township,
Lake County Health Department, Gewalt-Hamilton engineering, and the Village of
Fox River Grove for water and sewer building issues in the Industrial Park;
         o.   Serve as point of contact relating to drainage complaints and
refer to the Village Administrator or Village Engineer, Cuba Township Road
District, or the Village Roads Committee Chairperson;
         p.   Act as liaison with IDOT and LCDOT for numerous items, including
road problems, dead animal pickups, right-of-way issues, signs, etc., and ComEd
relating to street light maintenance;
         q.   Ensure all work is conducted within budgetary constraints and
according to Village policies, ordinances, codes, and standards of quality;
         r.   Assist with coordinating work and develop plans and strategies by
attending meetings with various personnel, contractors, and associations;
         s.   Ensure that the Village has current copies of all applicable
building codes, amendments, Federal, State and County regulations on file;
         t.   Handle tree removal permit applications and serve as point of
contact to refer issues to the Village Administrator and/or Village Forester;
         u.   Handle all resident complaints relating to garbage pickup and
recycling;
         v.   Serve as point of contact for new businesses for zoning
regulations and building regulations applicable within the M, B, and O Zoning
Districts;
         w.   Assist the Village Clerk with processing Freedom of Information
Act ("FOIA") requests and oversee FOIA compliance by other staff members;
         x.   Assist the Village Clerk with performing liquor, food, business,
massage establishment, and amusement device licensing, including processing of
applications, mailing of annual renewal letters and license forms, as well as
serve as liaison to various law enforcement agencies and the Illinois Liquor
Commissioner to process background checks and assure compliance with the
Illinois State Liquor Code;
         y.   Work closely with Barrington and Wauconda Fire Departments for
HAZMAT annual inspection and liquor license inspections;
         z.   Assist the Village Clerk with overseeing Village elections,
providing election packets to candidates, publish legal notices, certifying
candidates, filing completed candidate forms with Lake County, and serve as
Deputy Registrar to register citizens to vote, when required;
         aa.   Serve as backup for preparing the Village newsletter and
bulletin and update the official Village website relative to posting of legal
notices, agendas, and approved minutes;
         bb.   Serve as backup for answering and directing telephone calls,
greeting visitors, processing complaints, sorting the mail, and booking room
reservations;
         cc.   Notarize documents for the public and Village documents as
needed;
         dd.   Maintain Building and Zoning Department records and dispose of
records approved by the State for disposal;
         ee.   Assist the Village Administrator with special projects; and
         ff.   Perform other duties as properly assigned by the Village
Administrator.
      4.   Authority; Power: The Building Permit Administrator/Deputy Village
Clerk shall have the authority and power herein described and such further
power and authority as may be provided by Illinois Statute.
      5.   Custody Of Documents: The Building Permit Administrator/Deputy
Village Clerk, acting on behalf of the Village Clerk, shall be the custodian of
all documents belonging to the Village which are not assigned to the custody of
some other officer.
      6.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Building Permit Administrator/Deputy Village Clerk shall perform such other
duties and functions as may be required by Illinois Statutes, as required by
Village ordinances, and/or as otherwise assigned by the Board of Trustees.
      7.   Minutes: The Building Permit Administrator/Deputy Village Clerk,
when acting on behalf of the Village Clerk, shall keep and prepare the minutes
or record of proceedings of all meetings of the Board of Trustees, the Plan
Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-5-2017)
      8.   Compensation:
         a.   The Building Permit Administrator/Deputy Village Clerk shall
receive as compensation such salary as determined by the Board of Trustees from
time to time. (Ord. 2018-O-11, 6-6-2018)
         b.   There shall be no separate compensation paid to the Building
Permit Administrator/Deputy Village Clerk for the duties of Deputy Village
Clerk unless and until such time as this subsection is amended to provide
otherwise.
      9.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While
performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit
for extended periods of time; use hands to finger, handle, and feel; reach with
hands and arms; and talk and hear. The employee frequently is required to stand
and walk. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to thirty five (35)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include the ability to
adjust focus. (Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-5-2017)
1-6-7: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment And Term: There is hereby created the Office of Village
Treasurer who shall be the Chief Financial Officer of the Village, with the
responsibility for managing the revenue and cash flow of the Village, banking,
collection, receipt, reporting, custody, investment or disbursement of
Municipal funds. The Village Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of and be
appointed by the Village President by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees and the Village Treasurer's term of office shall be of an indefinite
term until his or her successor has been appointed and has qualified, provided,
however, any person holding such office may be removed from office at any time,
with or without cause, whether or not his or her term has expired, by the
Village President, with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Salary And Bond:
      1.   Salary: The Village Treasurer shall receive compensation in an
amount as determined by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
      2.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of the Treasurer's Office, the
Village Treasurer shall execute a bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the Treasurer's duties with security to be approved by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   Duties Of Village Treasurer: The Village Treasurer shall:
      1.   Serve as the Chief Financial Officer of the Village and receive all
monies due to the Village and keep books and accounts in the manner prescribed
by law relating to all Village financial matters, including banking and
investment accounts. Maintain oversight of the Village's outstanding debt
service. These books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection of
any member of the Corporate Authorities.
      2.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debts
and credits belonging thereto.
      3.   Assure every person paying money into the Treasury receives a
receipt for same, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid.
The Village Treasurer shall file copies of these receipts with the Village
Clerk with his or her monthly reports. Make or oversee deposits of cash into
the appropriate Village depositories. Responsible for periodic review of
deposit records.
      4.   Work closely with the Village Accountant and Village Administrator
by signing off on and approving accounts payable invoices and signing all
accounts payable checks. The Village Administrator must counter-sign all checks
greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      5.   Oversee and support the preparation of W-2s for employees and 1099s
for vendors by the statutorily mandated date and sign all required documents to
be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS").
      6.   Oversee the preparation and processing of payroll information,
including data relative to taxes, Social Security, and other deductions. Review
and approve paychecks, earning statements, monthly, quarterly, and annual State
and federal payroll reports. Prepare and file quarterly payroll tax returns,
including federal tax, Social Security, Medicare, Illinois tax, and
unemployment tax.
      7.   Collaborate with the Village Accountant to ensure that the requisite
total compensation information for the Village staff is accurate and posted
onto the Village's website in accordance with Illinois statutory compensation
disclosure requirements (Public Act 97-0609).
      8.   If the Treasurer has in his or her possession money properly
appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon the Treasury,
the Treasurer shall pay the money specified in this warrant to the person
designated by the warrant.
      9.   Work closely with the Village Accountant and Village Administrator
in the preparation and oversight of the Village budget, Annual Appropriation
Ordinance, Annual Tax Levy, Annual Audit, Annual Treasurer's Report for filing
with the Village Clerk and publication in the local newspaper and year-end
closing activities. Write year-end financial summary and budget text for the
annual financial plan. Annually review Village fiscal policies along with the
Village Administrator and make recommendations for adjustments as appropriate
for the Board of Trustees.
      10.   Prepare reports, at frequency in accordance with Village Board
requirements, with a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the Village. Present reports at Village Board meetings and file the reports
with the Village Clerk within 30 days following the end of the fiscal year.
      11.   Regularly advise the Village Board on matters relating to Municipal
finance.
      12.   Prepare and present an annual investment strategy report to the
Village Board, which includes recommendations for investment and banking
decisions.
      13.   Render an account under oath every month or more often depending on
requirements, demonstrating the state of the Village Treasury at the date of
the account and the balance of money received into the Village Treasury.
      14.   Keep all funds and money in custody that belongs to the Village in
such places of deposit as authorized by the Village Board.
      15.   Review all Village bank statements and ensure reconciliation of
statements.
      16.   Keep track of and monitor vacation, sick, and personal days for
employees of the Village and ensure an annual reconciliation of all time-off
and/or leave benefits.
      17.   Participate in annual insurance, audit, and budget meetings and
provide financial insight relating to the impact of Village decisions.
      18.   Work closely with the Village Accountant to provide oversite and
review of the Village's external auditors throughout the year and coordinate
with the Village Accountant to work with and provide information to the
auditors during the annual audit process.
      19.   Serve as the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund ("IMRF") agent for
the Village and ensure the accuracy of all funds deposited into the Village's
IMRF accounts. Serve as the primary point of contact with any sales tax rebate
agreements to ensure proper compliance with each agreement. Prepare annual
calculations and approve payments to the respective intended businesses.
      20.   Prepare and review the requisite annual Municipal bond report
(EMMA) and present report to the Village Board on an annual basis.
      21.   Review and respond to reports from the Illinois Department of
Revenue relative to any new businesses and discontinued businesses.
      22.   Prepare a confidential Sales-Tax-by-business category spreadsheet
on a quarterly basis based upon data received from the Illinois Department of
Revenue.
      23.   Attend monthly Village Board meetings and make all necessary and/or
requested presentations to the Village Board.
      24.   Assist the Village Administrator and Village Board on special
projects, as requested from time to time. Working with the Village
Administrator and Accountant, prepare a risk assessment document every two (2)
years with a focus on internal controls and ensure sign-off by Village staff.
      25.   Working with Village Administrator, handle filing of Illinois
Municipal League Risk Management Association (IMLRMA) claims for coverage and
review annual coverages for Village properties and confirm values.
      26.   Handle certain Human Resources ("HR") functions, including
analyzing employee data for insurance plan and making recommendations for
employee cost-sharing relating to medical and dental benefits. Periodically
meet with the insurance broker to discuss employee benefits and rate structures
for the Village.
      27.   Perform other duties as properly assigned by the Village President
and/or by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Monthly Statements, Warrants, Vouchers, Register: At the end of every
month, and more often if required by the Corporate Authorities, the Village
Treasurer shall render an account under oath to the Corporate Authorities, or
to such officer as may be designated by ordinance, showing the state of the
Treasury at the date of the account and the balance of money in the Treasury.
The Treasurer shall accompany the account with a statement of all money
received into the Treasury, and on what account, together with all warrants
redeemed and paid by the Treasurer. On the day the Treasurer renders an
account, these warrants, with all vouchers held by the Treasurer, shall be
delivered to the Village Clerk and filed, together with the account, in the
Clerk's Office. The Treasurer shall return all warrants paid by the Treasurer
marked "paid". The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants, which shall
describe each warrant, showing its date, amount and number, the fund from which
paid, the name of the person to whom paid and when paid.
   E.   Deposit Of Funds; Designation Of Bank: The Village Treasurer shall be
required to keep all funds and money in the Treasurer's custody belonging to
the Village in such places of deposit as authorized by the Board of Trustees
from time to time.
   F.   Personal Use Of Funds: The Village Treasurer shall keep all money
belonging to the Village in the Treasurer's custody separate and distinct from
his or her own money, and shall not use, either directly or indirectly, the
Village's money or warrants in the Treasurer's custody for his or her own use
and benefit, or that of any other person. Any violation of this provision shall
subject the Treasurer to immediate removal from office by the Corporate
Authorities, who may declare the Treasurer's Office vacant. In that case, a
successor shall be appointed, and shall hold the Treasurer's Office for the
remainder of the unexpired term of the Treasurer so removed.
   G.   Report And Annual Account: The Village Treasurer shall report to the
Corporate Authorities, as often as they require, a full and detailed account of
all receipts and expenditures of the Village, as shown by the Treasurer's
books, up to the time of the report. Within thirty (30) days following the end
of the fiscal year, the Village Treasurer shall make out and file with the
Village Clerk a full and detailed account of all Village receipts and
expenditures, and of all his or her transactions as Treasurer during the
preceding fiscal year and shall show in that account the state of the Treasury
at the close of the fiscal year.
   H.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While
performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit
for extended periods of time; use hands to finger, handle, and feel; reach with
hands and arms; and talk and hear. The employee frequently is required to stand
and walk. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to thirty five (35)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include the ability to
adjust focus. (Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-O-11, 6-6-2018; Ord.
2023-O-26, 11-7-2023)
1-6-8: VILLAGE COLLECTOR:
   A.   Creation Of Office: The Office of Village Collector (also known as
Municipal Collector) is hereby established. The Village Collector shall not be
required to be a Village resident.
   B.   Appointment: The Village Collector shall be appointed by the Village
President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. Any person
holding the appointive Office of the Village Collector may be removed from
office at any time, with or without cause, by the Village President, with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Powers: The Village Collector shall have and is hereby vested with all
the rights, powers, privileges, authority and duties authorized and provided
for in the Illinois Municipal Code with respect to the Office of Municipal
Collector in the conduct of his or her office.
   D.   Compensation: There shall be no compensation paid to the Village
Collector unless and until such time as this subsection is amended to provide
otherwise.
   E.   Ex-Officio Village Collector: If there is no Village Collector who has
been appointed by the Village President, the Village Clerk shall serve as the
Ex-Officio Village Collector.
   F.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While
performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit
for extended periods of time; use hands to finger, handle, and feel; reach with
hands and arms; and talk and hear. The employee frequently is required to stand
and walk. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to thirty five (35)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include the ability to
adjust focus. (Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-5-2017)
1-6-9: VILLAGE ENGINEER:
   A.   Office Created: The position of Village Engineer is hereby created.
(Ord. 64-O-67, 6-2-1964; amd. 1996 Code)
   B.   Appointment: The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees from time to
time. The Village Engineer may be removed at any time, with or without cause,
by the Village President, with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees. The
Village Engineer so engaged may also be utilized on a consulting basis for the
purpose of handling specific projects of the Village. (Ord. 97-O-04, 2-4-1997)
   C.   Compensation: The compensation of the Village Engineer as an
independent contractor shall be as approved by the Board of Trustees from time
to time. (Ord. 64-O-67, 6-2-1964; amd. 1996 Code)
1-6-10: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
   A.   Office Created: The position of Village Attorney is hereby created.
   B.   Appointment: The Village Attorney shall be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees from time to
time. The Village Attorney may be removed at any time, with or without cause,
by the Village President, with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Compensation: The compensation of the Village Attorney as an
independent contractor shall be as approved by the Board of Trustees from time
to time. (Ord. 97-O-04, 2-4-1997)
1-6-11: VILLAGE ACCOUNTANT:
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created an at-will position of
employment with the Village of Village Accountant, who shall be hired by the
Village President and shall have such duties as assigned by the Village
President, or as delegated or assigned by the Village Administrator. The
Village Accountant shall serve the residents of the Village by assisting the
Village Administrator in performing in a timely and professional manner, a
variety of professional accounting duties associated with preparing,
maintaining, analyzing, verifying, calculating, posting, reconciling, and
balancing complex financial transactions, statements, records, and reports.
   B.   Termination: The Village Accountant shall be an at-will employee of the
Village and may be terminated at any time, with or without cause, by the
Village President.
   C.   Compensation: The Village Accountant shall receive as compensation such
salary as determined by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
Village Accountant shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain the accuracy of the Village's general and fund ledger and
assist in preparation of the Village budget, annual audit, and year-end closing
activities and perform his or her work independently within approved
guidelines, policies and procedures, which work shall be reviewed through
observation of accomplishments, as well as verification of financial records
and independent audits.
      2.   Review, adjust, and maintain the general ledger, including accounts
payable, payroll, and revenue, journal entries, and maintain accounts for
several individual Village funds, including the Motor Fuel Tax Fund, and
reconcile depository accounts and Motor Fuel Tax Fund.
      3.   Substantiate, process, and deposit all monies coming into the
Village, including all tax revenues, payments for licenses, permits, fines,
bank transfers, and other obligations due the Village, balance daily receipts,
and prepare information for and make deposits, including credit card receipts.
The Village Accountant does not make cash bank deposits.
      4.   Substantiate and process all invoices for payment, resolve problems
with vendors, enter accounts payable information, prepare accounts payable
reports/warrants for the Village Board approval, and prepare, and mail checks
for payment of accounts payable.
      5.   Prepare and process payroll information, including data relative to
taxes, Social Security, and other deductions, and prepare paychecks, earning
statements, monthly, quarterly, and annual State and Federal payroll reports.
Provide necessary information to the Treasurer for filing of the reports.
      6.   Prepare and mail W-2s for employees and 1099s along with require
forms for vendors by the stat   utorily mandated date. Responsible for
collection of vendor form W-9's.
      7.   Prepare requisite compensation information for Village staff and
ensure information is posted on the Village's website in accordance with
Compensation Disclosure - Public Act 97-0609.
      8.   Invoice developers and petitioners for reimbursable expenses, and
invoice businesses and residents for false security system alarms.
      9.   Monitor cash flow, advise the Village Treasurer and the Village
Administrator of funds available for investment and reinvestment.
      10.   Assist Village Treasurer with the preparation of the Village's
annual appropriation ordinance, annual tax levy ordinance, and annual
Treasurer's Report.
      11.   Participate in development of, and monitoring of expenses in
relation to the Village's annual budget and the Appropriation Ordinance.
      12.   Prepare monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reports, as well
as such ad hoc reports for use by the Village Administrator and/or by the
Village Board, as they may request from time to time.
      13.   Report monthly bank balances, monitor and keep track of Fund
Balance and the percentage of Fund Balance on a monthly basis for the Village
Treasurer.
      14.   Working with the Village Treasurer, ensure timely payments of the
debt service on any outstanding Village debt and confirm payment thereof.
      15.   Review water and sewer rates every five (5) years and provide
information for new ordinance, maintaining annual schedules.
      16.   Update various monthly schedules and spreadsheets for Utility Tax
revenues and developer impact fees.
      17.   Reconcile front counter cash drawer and petty cash funds on a
weekly basis and secure excess cash. Ensure smaller bills are available for the
front counter cash fund.
      18.   Prepare and submit annual man-hour report for IMLRMA.
      19.   Work with the Village Treasurer and provide information to the
auditors during the annual audit.
      20.   Interact with Village engineers and Village committees regarding
road work, stormwater and wetland issues, and letters of credit.
      21.   Oversee water and sewer records billing, revenue, cash receipts and
monitor aging reports for Fox River Grove.
      22.   Handle weed liens, bill owners of property for ordinance violations
relating to weed liens, and coordinate with the Village Attorney for
noncompliance payments.
      23.   Monitor outstanding letters of credit and notify Village engineers,
developers, builders, and banks pertaining to initiation, renewals, values, and
balances, and demands in cases of default.
      24.   Conduct weekly backups of the Village's computer system and Tera
Station (shared drive), and several times a week for QuickBooks.
      25.   Assist Village Administrator and Village Board on special projects,
including assisting with coordination of the Annual Barn Stomp.
      26.   Perform other duties as properly assigned by the Village
Administrator.
   E.   Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are
representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. While
performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit
for extended periods of time; use hands to finger, handle, and feel; reach with
hands and arms; and talk and hear. The employee frequently is required to stand
and walk. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to thirty five (35)
pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include the ability to
adjust focus. (Ord. 2017-O-19, 9-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-O-11, 6-6-2018; Ord.
2023-O-26, 11-7-2023)
1-6-12: EMPLOYEE POLICY MANUAL:
The Employee Policy Manual of the Village, in its amended and restated form is
hereby approved, adopted, and incorporated by reference as if set out herein in
its entirety, effective on December 31, 2023. A copy of said Employee Policy
Manual dated December 31, 2023 is on file in the office of the Village Clerk
for reference and inspection by the public and by employees and officers of the
Village. (Ord. 2018-O-23, 11-13-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-O-03, 1-7-2020; Ord. 2023-
O-01, 1-3-2023; Ord. 2023-O-30, 12-5-2023)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE A. PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Creation
1-7A-2: Membership And Terms
1-7A-3: Meetings
1-7A-4: Powers
1-7A-5: Bond And Salary
1-7A-1: CREATION:
A Plan Commission for the Village of Lake Barrington is hereby created pursuant
to State law 1 . (Ord. 60-O-04, 1-4-1960)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4.
1-7A-2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
   A.   Membership: The Plan Commission hereby created shall consist of seven
(7) members who shall be appointed by the Village President, with the consent
of the Board of Trustees. One of the members so appointed shall be designated
by the Village President as chairman at the time of his or her appointment. In
addition, the Village President shall be a member ex officio of the Commission.
   B.   Term Of Office: At and upon the effective date of the Ordinance
codified in this Article, two (2) members of the Plan Commission shall have
terms expiring on April 30, 1995; two (2) members of the Plan Commission shall
have terms expiring on April 30, 1996; one member of the Plan Commission shall
have a term expiring on April 30, 1997; one member of the Plan Commission shall
have a term expiring on April 30, 1998; one member of the Plan Commission shall
have a term expiring on April 30, 1999. The length of respective terms of
members of the Plan Commission holding office on the effective date of the
Ordinance codified in this Article, shall be initially determined by the
Village President, consistent with the provision of this subsection. The
successor to each member so appointed shall each serve for a five (5) year
term. All members shall serve until their successors have been appointed and
qualified. Any such member may be removed from office at any time, whether or
not his or her term has expired, by the Village President, by and with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 97-O-04, 2-4-1997)
1-7A-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   General:
      1.   The Plan Commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and
places as may be determined by it, and special meetings of the Commission may
be held upon the call of the chairman or of any three (3) members thereof in
the same manner as provided for the calling of special meetings of the Board of
Trustees in subsection 1-5-4C of this Title. The Village Clerk shall act as
secretary of the Plan Commission; provided, however, the chairman of the Plan
Commission may appoint a recording secretary for such term or terms and at such
time or times as the chairman shall determine to keep a record of its
proceedings in an appropriate journal. The recording secretary may either be a
member or a nonmember of the Plan Commission.
      2.   A majority of the full membership of the Plan Commission shall
constitute a quorum to do business and all action of the Commission at which a
quorum is present shall be controlled by a majority vote of those present.
      3.   The chairman shall be the presiding officer of the Commission and
shall be entitled to vote on all matters in the same manner as any other member
of the Commission. (Ord. 78-O-02, 1-7-1978)
   B.   Public Meetings: All official meetings of the Commission shall be open
to the public.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The Commission may adopt its own rules of procedure
for the conduct of its meetings but such rules shall not be in conflict with
any of the provisions of this Article or any other ordinances of the Village or
with any applicable statutory requirements. (Ord. 60-O-04, 1-4-1960)
1-7A-4: POWERS:
The Plan Commission shall exercise all the powers conferred and authorized by
State law and this Code, and shall be governed by the provisions of the State
and this Code in determining its purposes, duties and powers. (Ord. 60-O-04, 1-
4-1960; amd. 1996 Code)
1-7A-5: BOND AND SALARY:
No bond shall be required of any member of the Plan Commission and the members
shall serve without salary, provided, however, the Chair of the Plan Commission
shall receive a salary of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month. (Ord. 2018-O-16, 7-
10-2018)
ARTICLE B. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Creation And Membership
1-7B-2: Meetings
1-7B-3: Jurisdiction
1-7B-4: Vote
1-7B-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Board Created: A Board of Appeals is hereby created. The word "Board"
when used in this Article shall be construed to mean the Board of Appeals.
   B.   Appointment: The said Board shall consist of seven (7) members
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
of the Village.
   C.   Term: The members of said Board shall serve respectively for the
following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three (3)
years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six (6) years,
and one for seven (7) years; the successor to each member so appointed to serve
for a term of five (5) years.
   D.   Chairman: One of the members so appointed shall be named as chairman at
the time of his appointment.
   E.   Removal: The Village President, with the concurrence of the Board of
Trustees, shall have the power to remove any member of said Board for cause and
after a public hearing.
   F.   Vacancies: Vacancies upon said Board shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided
for the appointment of such member. (Ord. 97-O-04, 2-4-1997)
1-7B-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Call Of Meetings: The meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at
the call of the chairman or at such times as such Board may determine.
   B.   Administration Of Oaths; Attendance By Witnesses: Such chairman, or in
his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings of said Board shall be open to the public.
   D.   Minutes; Records: The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and
other official actions. (1996 Code)
1-7B-3: JURISDICTION:
The Board of Appeals is hereby vested with the powers and duties as provided in
Title 8, Chapter 11 of this Code. (1996 Code)
1-7B-4: VOTE:
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board of Appeals shall be
required for any recommendation to the Board of Trustees. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Intent
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Pecuniary Interests In Contracts
1-8-4: Relationship To Village Officer
1-8-5: Prohibited Political Activities
1-8-6: Gift Ban
1-8-7: Village Policy Prohibiting Retaliation Against Whistleblowers
1-8-8: Ethics Advisor
1-8-9: Ethics Commission
1-8-10: Penalties
1-8-1: INTENT:
It is in the interest of the Village and its citizens that all officers of this
Village avoid any conflict of interest and also avoid the appearance of
conflict of interest or other similar improprieties. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall be given these definitions:
BOARD OF      The Board of Trustees of the Village of Lake Barrington.
TRUSTEES:
              Any activity in furtherance of an effort to influence the selection, nomination,
              election, or appointment of any individual to any federal, state, or local public
CAMPAIGN FOR  office or office in a political organization, or the selection, nomination, or
ELECTIVE      election of presidential or vice presidential electors, but does not include
OFFICE:       activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
              legislative, or administrative action,
              b) relating to collective bargaining, or
              c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
              A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination or election
CANDIDATE:    to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy in nomination,
              and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a regular election, as
              defined in Section 1-3 of the Election Code.
COLLECTIVE    Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Section 3 of the Illinois Public
BARGAINING:   Labor Relations Act.
              With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited to the employee that
              counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as a condition of his or
              her employment, but for purposes of this Chapter, does not include any designated
COMPENSATED   holidays, vacation period, personal time, compensatory time off or any period when
TIME:         the employee is on a leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose
              hours are not fixed, "compensated time" includes any period of time when the
              officer is on premises under the control of the employer and any other time when
              the officer or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of
              location.
COMPENSATORY  Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee to compensate in whole or
TIME OFF:     in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work time required of that
              employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in Section 9-1.4 of the Election
              Code.
              A person employed by the Village of Lake Barrington, whether on a full time or
EMPLOYEE:     part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
              direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
              the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER:     The Village of Lake Barrington.
              Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or other
              tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not limited to,
GIFT:         cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements related to or
              attributable to government employment or the official position of an officer or
              employee.
              Any period during which an employee does not receive:
LEAVE OF      a)   compensation for employment,
ABSENCE:      b)   service credit toward pension benefits, and
              c)   health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
              A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by statute or
OFFICER:      ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for service in his or
              her official capacity.
              Any activity in support of or in connection with any campaign for elective office
              or any political organization, but does not include activities:
POLITICAL     a)   relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
ACTIVITY:     administrative action,
              b)   relating to collective bargaining, or
              c)   that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
              A party, committee, association, fund, or other organization (whether or not
POLITICAL     incorporated) that is required to file a statement of organization with the State
ORGANIZATION: Board of Elections or a County Clerk under Section 9-3 of the Election Code, but
              only with regard to those activities that require filing with the State Board of
              Elections or a County Clerk.
              A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
              political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
              B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase of,
              selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
              fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
              C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or report
              regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
              D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in connection
              with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for
              political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
              E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in an
              election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign for
              elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political purposes or
              for or against any referendum question.
              F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
              organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
PROHIBITED    question.
POLITICAL     G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a political
ACTIVITY:     organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in an effort to
              get voters to the polls.
              H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or filing any
              petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or against any
              referendum question.
              I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in that
              capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
              J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
              K.    Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign literature,
              campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any candidate for elective
              office or for or against any referendum question.
              L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
              question.
              M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against any
              referendum question.
              N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party convention.
              O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any election.
              Any person or entity who:
              A.   Is seeking official action:
                 1)   by an officer or
                 2)   by an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that
              employee;
              B.   Does business or seeks to do business:
PROHIBITED       1)   with the officer or
SOURCE:          2)   with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
              employee;
              C.   Conducts activities regulated:
                 1)   by the officer or
                 2)   by an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that
              employee; or
              D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
              nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
VILLAGE:      The Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE       The Village President of the Village of Lake Barrington. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-
PRESIDENT:    2021)
 
1-8-3: PECUNIARY INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS:
   A.   Purchase or Sale: No Village officer shall be interested, directly or
indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any other person, in any
contract, work or business of the Village or in the sale of any article,
whenever the expense, price or consideration of the contract, work, business or
sale is paid either from the treasury or by any assessment levied by any
statute or ordinance. No Village officer shall be interested, directly or
indirectly, in the purchase of any property which:
      1.   Belongs to the Village; or
      2.   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      3.   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the Village.
   B.   Voting By Officer: No Village officer may be in any manner interested,
either directly or indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any
other person, in any contract or the performance of any work in the making or
letting of which such officer may be called upon to act or vote. No such
officer may represent, either as agent or otherwise, any person with respect to
any application or bid for any contract or work in regard to which such officer
may be called upon to vote. Nor may any such officer take or receive, or offer
to take or receive, either directly or indirectly, any money or other thing of
value as a gift or bribe or means of influencing his or her vote or action in
his or her official character. Any contract made and procured in violation
hereof is void.
   C.   Exceptions: However, any elected or appointed member of the Corporate
Authorities may provide materials, merchandise, property, services or labor if:
      1.   The contract is with a person in which such interested member of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village has less than a seven and one-half percent
(7 ½%) share in the ownership; and
      2.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of
his or her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed
award of the contract; and
      3.   Such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum; and
      4.   Such contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office; and
      5.   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest responsible
bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00), but the contract may be awarded without bidding if the amount is
less than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00); and
      6.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person in the same fiscal year to
exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
   D.   Additional Exceptions: In addition to the above exemptions, any elected
or appointed member of the Corporate Authorities may provide materials,
merchandise, property, services or labor if:
      1.   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village provided that any such interested member
shall abstain from voting; and
      2.   The amount of the contract does not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00); and
      3.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person in the same fiscal year to
exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00); and
      4.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of
his or her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed
award of the contract; and
      5.   Such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   E.   Public Utility: A contract for the procurement of public utility
services by the Village with a public utility company is not barred by this
chapter by one or more members of the Corporate Authorities being an officer or
employee of the public utility company or holding an ownership interest of no
more than seven and one-half percent (7 ½%) in the public utility company or
holding an ownership interest of any size if the Village then has a population
of less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) and the public utility's rates
are approved by the Illinois Commerce Commission. An elected or appointed
member of the Corporate Authorities having such an interest shall be deemed not
to have a prohibited interest under this chapter.
   F.   Local Financial Institutions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall
preclude a contract of deposit of monies, loans or other financial services by
the Village with a local bank or local savings and loan association, regardless
of whether a member or members of the Corporate Authorities are interested in
such bank or savings and loan association as an officer or employee or as a
holder of less than seven and one-half percent (7 ½%) of the total ownership
interest. A member or members holding such an interest in such a contract shall
not be deemed to be holding a prohibited interest for purposes of this chapter
if:
      1.   Such interested member or members of the Corporate Authorities must
publicly state the nature and extent of their interest during deliberations
concerning the proposed award of such a contract but shall not participate in
any further deliberations concerning the proposed award.
      2.   Such interested member or members shall not vote on such a proposed
award.
      3.   Any member or members abstaining from participation in deliberations
and voting under this Chapter may be considered present for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
      4.   Award of such a contract shall require approval by a majority vote
of those members presently holding office.
      5.   Consideration and award of any such contract in which a member or
members are interested may only be made at a regularly scheduled public meeting
of the governing body of the municipality. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-4: RELATIONSHIP TO VILLAGE OFFICER:
It shall be considered a conflict of interest and in violation of this Chapter
if a relative of any existing elected or appointed Village officer having the
following relationship to such Village officer: spouse, descendant, brother,
sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew or cousin becomes employed by the Village,
directly or indirectly. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-5: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the Village of
Lake Barrington in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.    At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this Chapter prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this Chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-
2021)
1-8-6: GIFT BAN:
Except as permitted by this Section
1-8-6, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this Section
1-8-6.
   A.    Exceptions: Section
1-8-6 of this Chapter is not applicable to the following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee or his or her spouse or
immediate family member pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any:
         a.   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code or
         b.   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, half-
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiancé or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this Chapter, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this Chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      Each of the exceptions listed in this Section
1-8-6 is mutually exclusive and independent of every other.
   B.   Disposition of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this Section
1-8-6 if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a
prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its
value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-7: VILLAGE POLICY PROHIBITING RETALIATION AGAINST WHISTLEBLOWERS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this Section
1-8-7, the following words and/or phrases shall have the following meanings:
 
AUDITING       Shall have the meaning set forth in 50 ILCS 105/4.1(i).
OFFICIAL:
EMPLOYEE:      Shall have the meaning set forth in 50 ILCS 105/4.1(i).
IMPROPER
GOVERNMENTAL   Shall have the meaning set forth in 50 ILCS 105/4.1(i).
ACTION:
RETALIATE,
RETALIATION,   Shall have the meaning as set forth in 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
OR RETALIATORY
ACTION:
               Any Village employee or contractor of the Village who:
                  (a)   Reports an alleged improper governmental action,
WHISTLEBLOWER:    (b)   Cooperates with an investigation by an auditing official related to a
               report of alleged improper governmental action, and/or
                  (c)   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an alleged improper
               governmental action.
 
   B.   Retaliation Against Whistleblower Prohibited: No agent or
representative of the Village, or another employee, shall retaliate against any
Village employee or contractor of the Village who is or may be a whistleblower
as defined in this Section.
   C.   Statutory Remedies Available To A Whistleblower: The remedies which are
available to Village employees or to contractors of the Village subjected to
adverse actions for reporting alleged improper governmental action shall
include those remedies provided in 50 ILCS 105/4.1(f).
   D.   Statutory Procedure for Invoking Whistleblower Protections: To invoke
the protections of 50 ILCS 105/4.1, a Village employee and/or any contractor of
the Village shall make a written report of alleged improper governmental action
to the appropriate auditing official. A Village employee or contractor of the
Village who believes he or she has been retaliated against in violation of 50
ILCS 105/4.1 must submit a written report relative thereto to the auditing
official within sixty (60) days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action.
If the auditing official is the individual allegedly committing the improper
governmental action, the employee or contractor may report the alleged improper
governmental action in writing to an alternative auditing official of the
Village or to any State's Attorney.
   E.   Auditing Officials Designated: The Village hereby designates the
following three (3) persons as alternative auditing officials pursuant to 50
ILCS 105/4.1: (1) the Village Administrator, (2) the Village Attorney, or (3)
the Village Treasurer. A Village employee or contractor of the Village wishing
to make a written report relative to an alleged improper governmental action
shall provide such written report to such alternate auditing official as he or
she believes to be more appropriate, given the nature of his or her complaint.
   F.   Responsibilities of Auditing Official(s): The responsibilities of the
Village's Auditing Official(s) shall include, but shall not be limited to the
following:
      1.   The auditing officials selected by the Village shall establish
written processes and procedures for managing complaints of alleged improper
governmental action which are submitted pursuant to 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
      2.   Each auditing official shall investigate and dispose of reports of
alleged improper governmental action referred to him or her in accordance with
the procedures established herein.
      3.   If an auditing official of the Village concludes that an alleged
improper governmental action has taken place or concludes that the Village or
any department, employee or officer thereof has or have hindered a Village
auditing official's investigation into the report, the auditing official shall
notify in writing the Village President and any other individual or entity the
auditing official deems necessary in the circumstances.
      4.   A Village auditing official may transfer a report of alleged
improper governmental action to another auditing official of the Village for
investigation if an auditing official deems it appropriate, or to the
appropriate State's Attorney.
      5.   All auditing officials of the Village shall take reasonable measures
to protect employees subjected to adverse action for reporting alleged improper
governmental action who reasonably believe they may be subject to retaliation
or bodily harm for reporting improper governmental action.
   G.   Confidentiality Of Whistleblower Identity: To the extent permitted by
law, the identity of a Village employee or contractor of the Village reporting
information about an alleged improper governmental action shall be kept
confidential unless the Village employee or contractor of the Village waives
confidentiality in writing.
   H.   A Copy Or Summary Of The Provisions To Be Provided To All Employees:
Every employee of the Village shall receive a written summary or a complete
copy of 50 ILCS 105/4.1 as it may be amended from time to time upon
commencement of his or her employment with the Village and at least once during
each year of their respective employment. At the same time, each Village
employee shall also receive a copy of this Ordinance which establishes written
procedures for reporting alleged improper governmental actions to the
appropriate auditing official and/or the appropriate State's Attorney. (Ord.
2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-8: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees shall designate an ethics advisor for the Village of Lake Barrington.
The duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of,
or an independent contractor for, the Village of Lake Barrington.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the Village of Lake Barrington concerning the interpretation of and
compliance with the provisions of this Section
1-8-8 and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall perform such other duties
as may be delegated by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-9: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created: There is hereby created a Commission to be known as
the Ethics Commission of the Village of Lake Barrington. The Commission shall
be comprised of three (3) members appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. No person shall be appointed as a
member of the Commission who is related, either by blood or by marriage up to
the degree of first cousin, to any elected officer of Village of Lake
Barrington. No more than two (2) members of the Commission shall belong to the
same political party at the time such appointments are made. Party affiliation
shall be determined by affidavit of the person appointed.
   B.   First Meeting Of Commission:
      1.   At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
      2.   At the first meeting of the Commission, the commissioners shall
choose a chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of
the chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   C.   Removal Of Commissioner: The Village President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, may remove a commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after service on the
commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the commissioner and after providing an opportunity to
be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   D.   Commission Powers And Duties of Commission: Except as otherwise
provided in Section
1-8-7 of this Chapter, the Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate and issue recommendations for disciplinary actions, and refer
violations of this Chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
Commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this Chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this Chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the Village of Lake Barrington to cooperate with the
Commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the Commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this Chapter.
   E.   Complaints:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in Section
1-8-7 of this Chapter, complaints alleging a violation of this Chapter shall be
filed with the Ethics Commission.
      2.   Within five (5) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within five (5) business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
Commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this Chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the Open Meetings Act. The Commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the Commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed,
within twenty (20) business days after receiving the complaint.
      If the complaint is deemed by the Commission sufficient to allege a
violation of this Chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then
the Commission shall notify in writing the attorney designated by the Corporate
Authorities to prosecute such actions and recommend to such attorney that the
complaint be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed by the
Commission not sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination
of probable cause, then the Commission shall send by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the
complaint, and that notice shall be made public.
      If the complaint is deemed by the Commission sufficient to allege a
violation of this Chapter, then the Commission shall notify in writing the
attorney designated by the Corporate Authorities to prosecute such actions and
shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and its recommendation relative
thereto and all additional documents in the custody of the Commission
concerning the alleged violation, provided, however, such recommendations shall
not be binding on such attorney.
      4.   The Commission may also recommend any appropriate discipline up to
and including discharge, if a person is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction guilty of a violation of this Chapter.
      5.   A complaint alleging the violation of this Chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 2021-O-10, 8-3-2021)
1-8-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of this Chapter shall
be subject to a mandatory fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, and each day
each offense exists and/or continues constitutes a separate offense.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of this Chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2021-O-
10, 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 9
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Public Records
1-9-2: Officer
1-9-3: Procedure For Filing A Request
1-9-4: Inspection Of Records
1-9-5: Procedure For Requests
1-9-6: Produce Requested Records
1-9-7: Fees; Waiver Of Fees
1-9-8: Exempt And Nonexempt Records
1-9-9: Denial Of Records; Request For Review
1-9-10: Denial Of Records; Exemption(s)
1-9-11: Appeal To Denial Of Request
1-9-12: Binding Opinion
1-9-1: PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   The village recognizes that pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/1, the Illinois freedom of information act 1  ("FOIA") provides that it is
a primary obligation of public bodies to provide records.
   B.   The village also recognizes that pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/3.3 of the FOIA, public bodies are not required to interpret or
advise requesters as to the meaning or significance of public records.
   C.   The village also recognizes that pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/1 of the FOIA, public bodies are not obligated to create a public
record which was not already created or prepared by the public body.
   D.   Pursuant to the authority contained in the FOIA, the village hereby
promulgates as the following rules and regulations, but to the extent that said
rules and regulations might otherwise be interpreted as inconsistent with the
FOIA, the FOIA shall govern in all respects. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140.
1-9-2: OFFICER 1 :
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of "freedom of
information act officer" ("FOIA officer"). There may be one or more FOIA
officer(s) designated. The corporate authorities of the village will designate
one or more officials or employees of the village to act as a freedom of
information officer, and the village shall disclose the identity of its FOIA
officer(s) on either its website or by means of a list of such officers
available for public access. The list of FOIA officer(s) shall also be provided
to the state's public access counselor ("PAC").
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The FOIA officer(s), or his or her
designee, shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   Training: Initially, within six (6) months after January 1, 2010,
all FOIA officers shall successfully complete, via electronic means, a training
course administered by the Illinois public access counselor (the "PAC"). All
FOIA officer(s) shall thereafter complete additional training on an annual
basis. New FOIA officers must complete the curriculum within thirty (30) days
after their appointment to the position.
      2.   Responsibilities: The FOIA officer shall be responsible for:
         a.   Receiving FOIA requests;
         b.   Ensuring timely responses to FOIA requests;
         c.   Issuing FOIA responses;
         d.   Developing a list of documents or categories of records that the
village will immediately disclose upon request;
         e.   Meeting with requesters to inspect records in his or her
presence.
      3.   Request Received: Upon receiving an FOIA request, the FOIA officer
shall do the following:
         a.   Note the date the village received the written request;
         b.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
         c.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
         d.   Create a file for the retention of each original request, a copy
of the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a
copy of other related communications.
      4.   Extension Of Time To Produce; Denial: The FOIA officer or his or her
designee is authorized to issue notices of extension of time for production of
records as well as notices of denial for production of records.
   C.   Posting Of FOIA Officer And Related Information 2 : In compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois FOIA, the village shall prominently display at
its administrative office at the village hall, make available for inspection
and copying, and send through the mail, if requested, any or all of the
following:
      1.   A brief description of itself, including a short summary of its
purpose, a block diagram giving its functional subdivisions, the total amount
of its operating budget, the number and location of all of its separate
offices, the approximate number of full and part time employees, and the
identification and membership of any board, commission, committee, or council
which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the operation of the public
body, or which exercises control over its policies or procedures, or to which
the public body is required to report and be answerable for its operations; and
      2.   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating the freedom of
information officer or officers, the address where requests for public records
should be directed, and any fees allowable under the FOIA.
The village shall also post this information on any website the village
maintains. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 140/3.5.
2 1. 5 ILCS 140/4.
1-9-3: PROCEDURE FOR FILING A REQUEST:
   A.   Requests For Inspection: Pursuant to the freedom of information act 1
("FOIA"), requests for inspection of or copies of records shall be made in
writing and directed to the village's FOIA officer, but no standard form for
such request is required. Requests may be made by mail, electronic mail,
facsimile request, or personal delivery of a written request. If a requester
wishes, the FOIA officer will provide the requester with a "freedom of
information act request form" for his or her use. The FOIA officer, at his or
her discretion, may also consider verbal FOIA requests.
   B.   Questions Answered: Questions regarding access to village records shall
be directed to the FOIA officer, or his or her designee. In consideration of
the type, size, and complexity of the document(s) requested, it may be
necessary for a requester to make an appointment with the FOIA officer to
answer questions or review documents.
   C.   Recurrent Requesters:
      1.   Pursuant to section 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/2(g) of the
FOIA, a "recurrent requester" is defined as one who "in the twelve (12) months
preceding the request, has submitted to the same public body: a) a minimum of
fifty (50) requests for records, b) a minimum of fifteen (15) requests for
records within a thirty (30) day period, or c) a minimum of seven (7) requests
for records within a seven (7) day period", excepting requests made by news
media and nonprofit, scientific, or academic organizations "when the principal
purpose of the requests is: a) to access and disseminate information concerning
news and current or passing events, b) for articles of opinion or features of
interest to the public, or c) for the purpose of academic, scientific, or
public research or education".
      2.   Within five (5) business days after receipt of a request from a
"recurrent requester", the village shall notify the requester in writing: a)
that the village is treating the request as a request under 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/2(g) ("recurrent requester") of the FOIA, b) the reason(s) the
request is being treated in this way, and c) that the village will send its
initial response to the request within twenty one (21) days of receipt of the
request.
      3.   Within twenty one (21) business days after receipt of such a
request, the village shall again respond to the requester, which response shall
include an estimate of time required to fulfill the request; an estimate of the
fees to be charged, and other estimated costs, and, if applicable, notification
that the requester may be required to pay the fees and charges in full before
the requested records are copied; and/or notification that the request is
unduly burdensome and extend an opportunity to the requester to reduce the
request to a manageable proportion; or provide the requested records.
      4.   If the requested records were not provided to the requester within
the aforesaid twenty one (21) business day period, unless the records are
exempt from disclosure, the requested records shall be sent to the recurrent
requester within a reasonable period thereafter, considering the size and
complexity of the request. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 140.
1-9-4: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
   A.   Procedure: The FOIA officer or his or her designee shall obtain the
file or files requested and allow the requester to inspect them in his or her
presence. Should the requester request copies of all or a portion of the
information, the requester must indicate in writing, or on the FOIA request
form what copies are desired, and the FOIA officer or his or her designee will
make the requested copies and provide them to the requester within the time
frame prescribed by the FOIA, provided, however, that such information is not
determined to be exempt.
   B.   Exempt, Nonexempt Disclosure: For any request made to inspect and/or
photocopy a public record containing information that is both exempt from
disclosure and not exempt from disclosure, the village shall make only the
nonexempt information available for inspection and/or photocopying by redacting
the exempt information from the document.
   C.   Hours: Public records may only be inspected at the village hall, Monday
through Friday (holidays excepted) between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M.
   D.   Business Days: Monday through Friday, both inclusive, except holidays,
are defined or fixed by any statute of the state are hereby declared to be
"business days".
   E.   Search, Location And Reproduction Of Records: Only village personnel
shall be permitted to search village files to locate records requested, and
only village personnel shall be permitted to operate village equipment to
reproduce the requested copies. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
1-9-5: PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTS:
Upon receiving an FOIA request, the FOIA officer, or his or her designee,
shall:
   A.   Note the date the village received the written request;
   B.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and make a
notation of that date on the written request (5 business days for requests for
commercial purposes or for requests made by "recurrent requesters" as defined
herein, 5 business days for an initial response, with a follow up response
within 21 days after receipt of the request, and a final response within a
reasonable period thereafter, considering the size and complexity of the
request);
   C.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied;
   D.   Meet with requesters, if necessary, to inspect records in his or her
presence;
   E.   Create a file for the retention of each original request, a copy of the
response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy of
other related communications;
   F.   Assemble and duplicate the requested records, except for records which
are exempt, and redact any records which may be partially exempt, and/or
coordinate retrieval of the requested records with the facility storing the
records for the village;
   G.   Keep, and/or request from the designated personnel, and maintain a
record of those hours over eight (8) hours which were spent by personnel in
retrieving a requested record; and
   H.   Notify the requester in writing of the status of production of the
requested records, i.e., that such records are ready and available for the
requester, that production of the records is denied in whole or in part and the
reasons therefor, and/or the amount of any fees and/or costs associated with
the request, where applicable, prior to copying and/or production of such
requested records, and whether such fees and/or costs must be paid by the
requester prior to the village's copying of such records. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-
1-2011)
1-9-6: PRODUCE REQUESTED RECORDS:
   A.   Pursuant to the FOIA, the village is generally required to produce the
requested records within five (5) business days of receipt of the request,
excluding the day the request was received by the village, except where the
request is made for commercial purposes, and except where the request is made
by a "recurrent requester" as provided in this chapter.
   B.   "Commercial enterprise" as used in the Illinois freedom of information
act (FOIA) shall include both profit and not for profit ventures, organizations
and entities. The village may inquire as to whether the records requested are
sought to advance a commercial purpose, and if a requester attempts to procure
a public record for a commercial purpose without disclosing that the use is for
a commercial purpose, that constitutes a violation of the FOIA 1 . The
village's response to such commercial requests shall be as follows:
      1.   Within twenty one (21) business days after receipt of such a
commercial request, the village shall respond in writing to the requester,
which response shall include an estimate of time required to fulfill the
request; an estimate of the fees to be charged, and other associated costs as
provided in section
1-10-7 of this title, and, if applicable, notification that the requester may
be required to pay the fees and charges in full before the requested records
are copied; and/or notification that the request is unduly burdensome,
extending an opportunity to the requester to reduce the request to a manageable
proportion; or provide the requested records.
      2.   If the requested records were not provided to the commercial
requester within the aforesaid twenty one (21) business day period, unless the
records are exempt from disclosure, the requested records shall be sent to the
commercial requester within a reasonable period thereafter, considering the
size and complexity of the request.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a request is delivered on a day which
is not a business day, or after the close of business, the request shall be
deemed made on the first business day subsequent thereto.
   D.   If, upon review of the request, the FOIA officer, or his or her
designee, finds that he or she is not able to compile all of the necessary
information immediately, another time may be arranged within the prescribed
time frame for the requester to return to receive a response to the request.
   E.   The FOIA officer, or his or her designee, may extend the time limit for
responding to a request by an additional five (5) business days where:
      1.   The requested record is in a place other than the office in charge
of the record.
      2.   The request requires an extensive search.
      3.   The records have not been found in time and additional efforts are
necessary to retrieve them.
      4.   The record requires examination to determine if it should be exempt
from viewing.
      5.   Compliance with the request would cause undue burden or interfere
with the operations of the village. (Repeated requests for the same information
by the same person shall be deemed unduly burdensome under this provision.)
   F.   If it is necessary to extend the time limit for production of records,
the requester will be notified in writing by the FOIA officer or his or her
designee within five (5) business days of receipt of the request and such
notice will give the reason for the extension. Failure to respond to the
request within five (5) business days is considered a denial of the request.
(Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/3.1.
1-9-7: FEES; WAIVER OF FEES:
   A.   Each requester is required to pay to the village the appropriate fees
for copies of village records and will receive a receipt for same. In the case
of commercial requests, a requester shall also be required to pay to the
village other charges as set forth below. No records will be distributed to the
requester unless and until all charges associated with the request are paid to
the village in full. The village will charge the following fees as set forth in
the FOIA:
      1.   Black And White, Letter Or Legal Size Copies: There is no charge for
providing the initial fifty (50) pages, after which the cost will be fifteen
cents ($0.15) per page.
      2.   Color Or Irregular Sized Copies: The fee for color or irregular
sized copies shall be the actual cost incurred by the village for reproducing
the records.
      3.   Certification Of Document: The fee for certification of a document
shall be one dollar ($1.00).
      4.   Records In Electronic Format: If the village maintains the
respective document(s) in electronic format, such document(s) must be furnished
in the electronic format if the requester so requests. The village is not
required to produce records kept in electronic format in an alternate manner.
The fee charged for producing records in an electronic format shall be the
actual cost incurred by the village for purchasing the recording medium.
      5.   Commercial Requests: With respect to requests for commercial
purposes, in addition to the fees set forth in subsections A1 through A4 of
this section, such requesters shall also be required to pay the following:
         a.   The requester shall be required to pay to the village ten dollars
($10.00) per hour for each hour after the first eight (8) hours spent by
personnel in searching for or retrieving a requested record.
         b.   The requester shall be required to pay to the village the actual
cost of retrieving and transporting public records from an off site storage
facility when the public records are maintained by a third party storage
company under contract with the village.
         c.   With respect to those charges provided for in subsections A5a and
A5b of this section, the village shall provide to the requester an accounting
of all fees, costs, and personnel hours expended in connection with the
request.
   B.   All payments for production of records shall be made in the form of
cash or certified or cashier's check made payable to the village.
   C.   Requests to waive any fee(s) for reproduction of document(s) must be
made in writing to an FOIA officer of the village and must state how the
information requested "primarily benefits the general public". The FOIA officer
shall be authorized to determine whether such request for a waiver shall be
honored.
   D.   Each copy, other than electronic media, may be certified if requested
and paid for by the requester. Documents may be furnished without charge if the
requester is unable to pay for them, and the purpose of such request is
determined by the FOIA officer to be in the public interest. (Ord. 2011-O-25,
11-1-2011)
1-9-8: EXEMPT AND NONEXEMPT RECORDS:
   A.   The FOIA officer, or his or her designee, may not give out information
which is in a file marked by an asterisk (*) in the catalog of existing files.
This information has been predetermined to be exempt from disclosure under the
Illinois freedom of information act.
   B.   Any record marked with a double asterisk (**) has been determined to be
partially exempt. One or more authorized officers or employees of the village
shall review the file and will provide any nonexempt information to requester.
Records having both exempt and nonexempt material shall be provided to the
requester in a redacted format revealing only the nonexempt material.
   C.   In addition, while not so marked, information may not be disclosed if
it falls within one or more of the following exempt categories:
      1.   Disclosure of the requested information is specifically prohibited
by federal or state law or rules and regulations implementing federal or state
law, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(a).
      2.   The information requested is "private information" unless disclosure
is required by another provision of the FOIA, a state or federal law, or a
court order, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(b).
      3.   The information requested is a file(s), document(s), and/or other
data or database(s) maintained by one or more law enforcement agencies and
specifically designed to provide information to one or more law enforcement
agencies regarding the physical or mental status of one or more individual
subjects, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(b-5)/P.A. 96-0558.
      4.   The document(s) requested relate to personal information contained
within public records, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, unless the disclosure is consented to
in writing by the individual subjects of the information. "Unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy" means the disclosure of information that is highly
personal or objectionable to a reasonable person and in which the subject's
right to privacy outweighs any legitimate public interest in obtaining the
information. The disclosure of information that bears on the public duties of
public employees and officials shall not be considered an invasion of personal
privacy, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(c).
      5.   The document(s) requested are in the possession of the public body
and were created in the course of administrative enforcement proceedings, and
any law enforcement or correctional agency for law enforcement purposes, and
that disclosure would do one or more of the following, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/7(1)(d):
         a.   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated
law enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement or correctional
agency that is the recipient of the request;
         b.   Interfere with active administrative enforcement proceedings
conducted by the public body that is the recipient of the request;
         c.   Create a substantial likelihood that a person will be deprived of
a fair trial or an impartial hearing;
         d.   Unavoidably disclose the identity of a confidential source,
confidential information furnished only by the confidential source, or persons
who file complaints with or provide information to administrative,
investigative, law enforcement, or penal agencies; except that the identities
of witnesses to traffic accidents, traffic accident reports, and rescue reports
shall be provided by agencies of local government except when disclosure would
interfere with an active criminal investigation conducted by the agency that is
the recipient of the request;
         e.   Disclose unique or specialized investigative techniques other
than those generally used and known or disclose internal documents of
correctional agencies related to detection, observation or investigation of
incidents of crime or misconduct, and disclosure would result in demonstrable
harm to the agency or public body that is the recipient of the request;
         f.   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel
or any other person; or
         g.   Obstruct an ongoing criminal investigation by the agency that is
the recipient of the request.
      6.   The document(s) requested are records that relate to or affect the
security of correctional institutions and detention facilities, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(e).
      7.   The document(s) requested are preliminary drafts, notes,
recommendations, memorandums and other records in which opinions are expressed,
or policies or actions are formulated, except that a specific record or
relevant portion of a record shall not be exempt when the record is publicly
cited and identified by the head of the public body, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/7(1)(f).
      8.   The document(s) requested would disclose trade secrets and
commercial or financial information obtained from a person or business where
the trade secrets or commercial or financial information are furnished under a
claim that they are proprietary, privileged or confidential, and that
disclosure of the trade secrets or commercial or financial information would
cause competitive harm to the person or business, and the claim directly
applies to the records requested, including all trade secrets and commercial or
financial information obtained by a public body, including a public pension
fund, from a private equity fund or a privately held company within the
investment portfolio of a private equity fund as a result of either investing
or evaluating a potential investment of public funds in a private equity fund.
This exemption does not apply to the aggregate financial performance
information of a private equity fund, nor to the identity of the fund's
managers or general partners. This exemption does not apply to the identity of
a privately held company within the investment portfolio of a private equity
fund, unless the disclosure of the identity of a privately held company may
cause competitive harm. Nothing contained in this exemption is to be construed
to prevent a person or business from consenting to disclosure, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(g).
      9.   The document(s) requested constitute proposals or bids for a
contract, grant or agreement, including information which if it were disclosed
would frustrate procurement or give an advantage to any person proposing to
enter into a contract or agreement with the body, until an award or final
selection is made. Information prepared by or for the body in preparation of a
bid solicitation is exempt until an award or final selection is made, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(h).
      10.   The document(s) requested are valuable formulas, computer
geographic systems, designs, drawings or research data obtained or produced by
any public body when disclosure could reasonably be expected to produce private
gain or public loss. The exemption for "computer geographic systems" does not
extend to requests made by news media as defined in section 2 of the FOIA when
the requested information is not otherwise exempt and the only purpose of the
request is to access and disseminate information regarding the health, safety,
welfare, or legal rights of the general public, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/7(1)(i).
      11.   The document(s) requested are architects' plans, engineers'
technical submissions, and other construction related technical documents for
projects not constructed or developed in whole or in part with public funds and
the same for projects constructed or developed with public funds, including,
but not limited to, power generating and distribution stations and other
transmission and distribution facilities, water treatment facilities, airport
facilities, sport stadiums, convention centers, and all government owned,
operated, or occupied buildings, but only to the extent that disclosure would
compromise security, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(k).
      12.   The document(s) requested are minutes of meetings of public bodies
closed to the public as provided in the open meetings act until the public body
makes the minutes available to the public under section 2.06 of the open
meetings act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(l).
      13.   The document(s) requested constitute or reflect communications
between a public body and an attorney or auditor representing the public body
that would not be subject to discovery in litigation, and materials prepared or
compiled by or for a public body in anticipation of a criminal, civil or
administrative proceeding upon the request of an attorney advising the public
body, and materials prepared or compiled with respect to internal audits of
public bodies, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(m).
      14.   The document(s) requested are records relating to a public body's
adjudication of employee grievances or disciplinary cases, but this exemption
does not extend to the final outcome of cases in which discipline is imposed, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(n).
      15.   The document(s) requested relate to administrative or technical
information associated with automated data processing operations, including,
but not limited to, software, operating protocols, computer program abstracts,
file layouts, source listings, object modules, load modules, user guides,
documentation pertaining to all logical and physical design of computerized
systems, employee manuals, and any other information that, if disclosed, would
jeopardize the security of the system or its data or the security of materials
under this exemption, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(o).
      16.   The document(s) requested relate to records relating to collective
negotiating matters between public bodies and their employees or
representatives, but any final contract or agreement is subject to inspection
and copying, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(p).
      17.   The document(s) requested relate to test questions, scoring keys,
and other examination data used to determine the qualifications of an applicant
for a license or employment, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(q).
      18.   The document(s) requested relate to records, documents and
information relating to real estate purchase negotiations until those
negotiations have been completed or otherwise terminated. With regard to a
parcel involved in a pending or actually and reasonably contemplated eminent
domain proceeding under the eminent domain act, records, documents and
information relating to that parcel are exempt except as may be allowed under
discovery rules adopted by the Illinois supreme court. The records, documents
and information relating to a real estate sale are exempt until a sale is
consummated, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(r).
      19.   The document(s) requested relate to any and all proprietary
information and records related to the operation of an intergovernmental risk
management association or self-insurance pool or jointly self-administered
health and accident cooperative or pool, including any claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(s).
      20.   The document(s) requested relate to information contained in or
related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf
of, or for the use of a public body responsible for the regulation or
supervision of financial institutions or insurance companies, unless disclosure
is otherwise required by state law, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(t).
      21.   The document(s) requested relate to information that would disclose
or might lead to the disclosure of secret or confidential information, codes,
algorithms, programs, or private keys intended to be used to create electronic
or digital signatures under the electronic commerce security act, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(u).
      22.   The document(s) requested relate to vulnerability assessments,
security measures, and response policies or plans that are designed to
identify, prevent, or respond to potential attacks upon a community's
population or systems, facilities, or installations, the destruction or
contamination of which would constitute a clear and present danger to the
health or safety of the community, but only to the extent that disclosure could
reasonably be expected to jeopardize the effectiveness of the measures or the
safety of the personnel who implement them or the public. Information under
this exemption may include such things as details pertaining to the
mobilization or deployment of personnel or equipment, to the operation of
communication systems or protocols, or to tactical operations, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(v).
      23.   The document(s) requested relate to maps and other records
regarding the location or security of generation, transmission, distribution,
storage, gathering, treatment, or switching facilities owned by a utility, by a
power generator, or by the Illinois power agency, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/7(1)(x).
      24.   The document(s) requested relate to information contained in or
related to proposals, bids, or negotiations related to electric power
procurement under section 1-75 of the Illinois power agency act and section 16-
111.5 of the public utilities act that is determined to be confidential and
proprietary by the Illinois power agency or by the Illinois commerce
commission, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(y).
      25.   The document(s) requested relate to the names, addresses, or other
personal information of persons who are minors and are also participants and
registrants in programs of park districts, forest preserve districts,
conservation districts, recreation agencies, and special recreation
associations, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(dd)/P.A. 97-0385.
      26.   The document(s) requested relate to the names, addresses, or other
personal information of participants and registrants in programs of park
districts, forest preserve districts, conservation districts, recreation
agencies, and special recreation associations where such programs are targeted
primarily to minors, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(ee)/P.A. 97-0385.
      27.   The document(s) requested relate to one or more of the following
statutory exemptions to the extent provided for by such specific statute(s):
         a.   Firm performance evaluations under section 55 of the
architectural, engineering, and land surveying qualifications based selection
act;
         b.   Information contained in a local emergency energy plan submitted
to a municipality in accordance with a local emergency energy plan ordinance
that is adopted under section 11-21.5-5 of the Illinois municipal code;
         c.   Information and data concerning the distribution of surcharge
monies collected and remitted by wireless carriers under the wireless emergency
telephone safety act;
         d.   Law enforcement officer identification information or driver
identification information compiled by a law enforcement agency or the
department of transportation under section 11-212 of the Illinois vehicle code;
         e.   Records and information provided to a residential healthcare
facility resident sexual assault and death review team or the executive council
under the abuse prevention review team act;
         f.   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under section
4 of the Illinois health and hazardous substances registry act;
         g.   Security portions of system safety program plans, investigation
reports, surveys, schedules, lists, data, or information compiled, collected,
or prepared by or for the regional transportation authority under section 2.11
of the regional transportation authority act or the St. Clair County transit
district under the bi-state transit safety act;
         h.   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the personnel
records review act;
         i.   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the Illinois
school student records act;
         j.   Information the disclosure of which is restricted under section
5-108 of the public utilities act;
         k.   Names and information of people who have applied for or received
firearm owner's identification ("FOID") cards under the firearm owners
identification card act (P.A. 097-0080).
[5 ILCS 140/7.5(f), (i), (j), (k), (l), (o), (p), (q), (r), (s), (v)].
         l.   Personally identifiable information which is exempted from
disclosure under subsection (g) of section 19.1 of the Illinois toll highway
act (P.A. 97-0342). (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
1-9-9: DENIAL OF RECORDS; REQUEST FOR REVIEW:
   A.   If information is requested for a commercial purpose, and the request
is denied by the village, the requester may not file a request for review with
the public access counselor ("PAC").
   B.   If a request for information is treated by the village as a request for
a commercial purpose and the request is denied by the village, the requester
may file a request for review with the PAC for the limited purpose of reviewing
whether the village properly determined that the request was made for a
commercial purpose. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
1-9-10: DENIAL OF RECORDS; EXEMPTION(S):
If requested information cannot be released due to its exempt nature, or if a
request is unduly burdensome, the FOIA officer, or his or her designee, shall
complete a "denial of request for records" form and mail same to the requester
along with a blank "notice of appeal" form. The denial of request for records
form shall include: a) the decision to deny the request; b) the reasons for the
denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application of any exemption
claimed; c) the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for
the denial; d) the right to review by the public access counselor, if
applicable, and the address and phone number for the public access counselor;
and e) the right to judicial review. If an exemption is claimed, then the
denial shall include the specific reason(s) for the denial, including a
detailed factual basis and a citation to support legal authority.
A copy of each such denial letter and the completed request form shall also be
provided to the village president and the village attorney. Copies of all
notices of denial shall be retained by the FOIA officer, or his or her
designee, in a central file that is publicly accessible and indexed by type of
exemption. (Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011)
1-9-11: APPEAL TO DENIAL OF REQUEST:
If a request for records is denied, and the requester has a right to seek
judicial review of such denial pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/11,
or has a right to seek judicial review of the village's determination that the
request was made for commercial purposes, the requester may, within sixty (60)
days from receipt of such denial, pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/
9.5, file an appeal to the denial of production of records directed to the
Illinois public access counselor, whose address is:
 
                               Public Access Counselor
Public Access Counselor        Office Of The Attorney General
Office Of The Attorney General 500 S. 2nd Street
100 West Randolph, 12th Floor  Springfield, IL 62706
Chicago, IL 60601              Tel. (877) 299-3642
Tel. (312) 814-5526            Fax: (217) 782-1396
                               E-mail: publicaccess@atg.state.il.us
 
The Illinois public access counselor will respond to such appeal and issue a
binding opinion within sixty (60) days after the request for review (appeal)
unless a request for extension of thirty (30) business days is given by the
PAC. The PAC's binding opinion must make findings of fact and conclusions of
law and shall be issued to the requester and public body. The PAC's binding
opinion is subject to administrative review by either party. (Ord. 2011-O-25,
11-1-2011)
1-9-12: BINDING OPINION:
A binding opinion issued by the attorney general shall be considered final for
the purpose of administrative review. Any action for administrative review of a
binding opinion must be commenced in Cook or Sangamon County. (Ord. 2011-O-25,
11-1-2011)
CHAPTER 10
FEES AND DEPOSITS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Appeal Fee
1-10-2: Nonrefundable Filing Fee For Applications And/Or Petitions And Deposit
Required
1-10-3: Reserved
1-10-4: Issuance Of Permit(s) And/Or Approval(s)
1-10-5: Remedies Upon Noncompliance
1-10-6: Annexation Fees
1-10-7: Fees, Charges, Deposits, And Other Amounts Payable To The Village
1-10-8: Payment Required For All Lawful Debts And/Or Obligations Legally Due
The Village Prior To Certain Village Action(s)
1-10-9: Credit Card Fees
1-10-1: APPEAL FEE:
Petitions to appeal from a decision of the Building Officer must be accompanied
by a fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
1-10-2: NONREFUNDABLE FILING FEE FOR APPLICATIONS AND/OR PETITIONS AND DEPOSIT
REQUIRED:
   A.   Reimbursement For Expenses: All applicant(s) and/or petitioner(s), as
the case may be, shall be required to reimburse the Village for all expenses
incurred by the Village relative to the respective application or petition for
subdivision plat approval, whether preliminary or final approval is sought; any
petition for annexation; any petition for a special use; any petition for an
amendment to the text of the Village zoning ordinance; any petition for
variation from the zoning ordinance, any petition for re-zoning and related
amendment(s) to the Village zoning map, and/or for any other project which
requires the issuance of one or more permit(s) and/or approval(s) by the
Village, or any combination of any of the foregoing, including, but not limited
to, fees for the services of any and all professionals, experts and/or
consultants which are engaged by the Village relative to the respective
petition and/or application as well as charges for the publication of legal
notices, recording secretaries and/or court reporters.
   B.   Professionals, Experts and/or Consultants: The Village may, at its
discretion, retain such professionals, experts and/or consultants as it deems
necessary for a full and complete review and consideration of any application
for permit or petition for approval required by this Code. Such professionals,
experts and/or consultants may include, but shall not be limited to, attorneys,
engineers, land planners, environmentalists, conservationists, arborists,
architects, landscape architects, surveyors, soil experts and such other
professionals, experts or consultants as the Village deems necessary and the
applicant(s) and/or petitioner(s) shall be required to promptly reimburse the
Village for all such costs within thirty (30) days of receipt of an invoice
from the Village for such costs.
   C.   Nonrefundable Filing Fee and Minimum Initial Deposit For Reimbursement
of Expenses Required: Any application for subdivision plat approval, whether
preliminary or final approval is sought, any petition for annexation, any
petition for a special use, any petition for an amendment to the text of the
Village zoning ordinance and/or any petition for rezoning and the related
amendment(s) to the Village zoning map, and/or any request for variation(s)
from the provisions of this Code and/or the Village's Zoning Regulations, or
any combination of any of the foregoing, when submitted to the Village, must be
accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee, plus a deposit of funds into a
noninterest bearing, nonsegregated account held by the Village Treasurer, in an
amount sufficient to reimburse the Village for any and all expenses incurred,
or anticipated to be incurred, by the Village, all as specified from time to
time in Section
1-10-7 of this Chapter. Failure to submit the required deposit to the Village
in a timely manner may cause the Village to cancel the required public hearing.
   D.   Reimbursement to Village for Expenses Incurred: All applicant(s) and/or
petitioner(s) shall be required to reimburse the Village for expenses incurred
by the Village relative to the respective project(s) of any applicant(s) and/or
petitioner(s).
   E.   Payment of Expenses Incurred by the Village: The Village shall deduct
from the initial deposit received from an applicant and/or petitioner all cost
(s) and/or expenses incurred by the Village relative to the respective
applicant's and/or petitioner's project. Detailed records of payment of all
fees, cost(s), and/or expenses incurred by the Village shall be kept by the
Village and made available to the respective applicant(s) and/or petitioner(s)
at no charge.
   F.   Reimbursement Of Unused Deposits: Except as otherwise provided in this
Code, any portion of any deposit not expended by the Village shall be refunded
to the respective applicant(s) or petitioner(s) at such time as no further
expenditures or charges by the Village are reasonably anticipated.
   G.   Payment of Final Invoice Required: After a matter coming before the
Village has been finalized, the Village will provide to the respective
applicant(s) and/or petitioner(s) a final, itemized invoice for all cost(s)
and/or expenses incurred by the Village and unpaid through the application by
the Village of the respective applicant's and/or petitioner's initial deposit
if requested by the applicant(s) and/or petitioner(s). The applicant(s) and/or
petitioner(s) shall be required to pay such invoice within thirty (30) days of
receipt thereof. No permit(s) and/or approval(s) will be issued by the Village
to the respective petitioner(s) or applicant(s) until and unless all amounts
due and owing to the Village have been paid in full.
   H.   Unpaid Reimbursements For Expenses: All amounts due and owing to the
Village and remaining unpaid after thirty (30) days from the date of the final
invoice shall accrue interest at a rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per
month and, in addition, the petitioner or applicant shall be required to pay to
the Village an administrative fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2025-O-13, 7-1-
2025)
1-10-3: RESERVED:
1-10-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT(S) AND/OR APPROVAL(S):
Prior to the Village's issuance of any required permit(s) and/or approval(s)
relative to a matter, all amounts due and owing to the Village by any
petitioner(s) and/or applicant(s) are required to be paid in full. (Ord. 90-O-
23, 10-16-1990; amd. Ord. 95-O-23, 12-12-1995; Ord. 2025-O-13, 7-1-2025)
1-10-5: REMEDIES UPON NONCOMPLIANCE:
If any applicant or petitioner fails to comply with any of the foregoing
provisions, the village, in addition to such other remedies as provided by law
or the provisions of this title and the other applicable provisions of this
code and/or any officer, employee, board, committee or commission thereof may
refuse:
   A.   To process applications for permits or approval;
   B.   To make inspections as otherwise required;
   C.   To issue any applicable permits; and/or
   D.   To commence or further conduct hearings or meetings on the matter or
matters proposed by the applicant or petitioner if the applicant or petitioner
has failed to comply with this chapter at least twenty four (24) hours prior to
the scheduled hearing or meeting.
In addition to the foregoing remedies, and not by way of limitation, the
village may bring any action at law to collect any amounts due under any of the
foregoing provisions. (Ord. 90-O-08, 3-21-1990; amd. 1996 Code)
1-10-6: ANNEXATION FEES:
There shall be an annexation fee per acre, or for any fraction thereof, as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this chapter which shall be paid upon filing of any petition for
annexation but such fee shall be refunded if annexation is not approved by the
corporate authorities or if such petition is withdrawn. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-
2008)
1-10-7: FEES, CHARGES, DEPOSITS, AND OTHER AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THE VILLAGE:
All fees, charges, deposits, and other amounts required to be paid to the
village must be paid by check made payable to the village of Lake Barrington,
or by a credit card accepted by the village. Fees, charges, deposits, and other
amounts payable to the village pursuant to the various provisions of this code
include, but are not limited to, the following (The following list may not
include each and every fee, deposit or other amount due and owing to the
village of Lake Barrington pursuant to the provisions of this code. Reference
should always be made to the applicable code section, chapter, and title as
cited below for a detailed description of the fee, charge, deposit, or other
amount payable to the village and the related code provisions.):
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
Type Village Code Section Description Amount
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                                 Amount
                 Section
                                                                                                                   No charge
                                                                                                     Photocopy     for the
                                                                                                     charges:      first 50
                                                                                                     Black and     pages, after
                                                                                                     white, letter which the
                                                                                                     or legal size cost will be
                                                                                                     copies        $0.15 per
                                                                                                                   page
                                                                                                                   Fee shall be
                                                                                                                   the actual
                                                                                                     Photocopy     cost
                                                                                                     charges:      incurred by
                                                                                                     Color or      the village
                                                                                                     irregular     for
                                                                                                     sized copies  reproducing
                                                                                                                   the record
                                                                                                                   (s)
                                                                                                                   Fee shall be
                                                                                                                   the actual
                         Fees and costs required to be paid to the village; payment for production                 cost
                         of public records pursuant to the Illinois freedom of information act1.     Records in    incurred by
                         Payment to the village shall be made in the form of cash or certified or    electronic    the village
Fee(s) and costs         cashier's check made payable to the village. No records will be distributed format        for
imposed by the           to the requester unless and until all charges associated with the request                 purchasing
Illinois freedom 1-9-7   are paid in full.                                                                         the
of information           Note: These fees may be waived at the discretion of the FOIA officer if the               recording
act1                     FOIA officer determines that, pursuant to a written request for waiver of                 medium(s)
                         such fees, the request primarily benefits the general public and/or the     Certification $1.00 per
                         requester is unable to pay the prescribed fees and the purpose of the       of document   document
                         request is determined to be in the public interest                          For commercial requests,
                                                                                                     in addition to paying the
                                                                                                     fees set forth above, the
                                                                                                     requester shall be
                                                                                                     responsible to pay the
                                                                                                     following:
                                                                                                     Hourly charge After the
                                                                                                     for personnel first 8
                                                                                                     in searching  hours,
                                                                                                     for or        $10.00 for
                                                                                                     retrieving a  each hour
                                                                                                     requested     thereafter
                                                                                                     record
                                                                                                                   Actual cost
                                                                                                     Retrieving    of
                                                                                                     and           retrieving
                                                                                                     transporting  and
                                                                                                     records from  transporting
                                                                                                     off site      records from
                                                                                                     facility      an off site
                                                                                                                   facility
Filing fee       1-10-1  Appeal of decision(s) of building officer, fee for petition                 $300.00
(nonrefundable)
Filing fee                                                                                           $250.00 filing fee, plus a
(nonrefundable),                                                                                     minimum initial deposit of
plus deposit(s)  1-10-   Nonrefundable filing fee and initial deposit required to be paid to the     $3,500.00 to accompany
(balance of      2C,     Village by petitioner(s) and/or applicant(s) for plat of subdivision        application, which deposit
deposit(s) not   1-10-3, approval (whether preliminary or final approval is sought)                  shall be used to reimburse
expended is      1-10-4                                                                              the Village for any cost
refundable)                                                                                          (s) incurred by the
                                                                                                     Village.
Filing fee                                                                                           $250.00 filing fee, plus a
(nonrefundable),         Nonrefundable filing fee and initial deposit required to be paid to the     minimum initial deposit of
plus deposit(s)  1-10-   Village by petitioner(s) and/or applicant(s) for an amendment(s) to the     $3,500.00 to accompany
(balance of      2C,     text of this Code, and/or amendment(s) to the text of the Village Zoning    application, which deposit
deposit(s) not   1-10-3, Ordinance, and/or for request(s) for rezoning and/or related amendment(s)   shall be used to reimburse
expended is      1-10-4  to the Village Zoning Map, or any combination thereof                       the Village for any cost
refundable)                                                                                          (s) incurred by the
                                                                                                     Village.
Filing fee                                                                                           $250.00 filing fee, plus a
(nonrefundable),                                                                                     minimum initial deposit of
plus deposit(s)  1-10-                                                                               $3,500.00 to accompany
(balance of      2C,     Annexation, nonrefundable filing fee and initial deposit required to be     application, which deposit
deposit(s) not   1-10-3, paid to the Village by petitioner(s) and/or applicant(s) for annexation     shall be used to reimburse
expended is      1-10-4                                                                              the Village for any cost
refundable)                                                                                          (s) incurred by the
                                                                                                     Village.
Filing fee                                                                                           $250.00 filing fee, plus a
(nonrefundable),                                                                                     minimum initial deposit of
plus deposit(s)  1-10-                                                                               $3,500.00 to accompany
(balance of      2C,     Special Use, nonrefundable filing fee and initial deposit required to be    application, which deposit
deposit(s) not   1-10-3, paid to the Village by petitioner(s) or applicant(s) for a special use      shall be used to reimburse
expended is      1-10-4                                                                              the Village for any cost
refundable)                                                                                          (s) incurred by the
                                                                                                     Village
Filing fee                                                                                           $300.00 filing fee, plus a
(nonrefundable),                                                                                     minimum initial deposit of
plus deposit(s)  1-10-   Zoning variation, nonrefundable filing fee and initial deposit required to  $1,500.00 to accompany
(balance of      2C,     be paid to the Village by petitioner(s) or applicant(s) for a zoning        application, which deposit
deposit(s) not   1-10-3, variation                                                                   shall be used to reimburse
expended is      1-10-4                                                                              the Village for any cost
refundable)                                                                                          (s) incurred by the
                                                                                                     Village.
                         All amounts due the Village and remaining unpaid after a 30 day period      $200.00 Administrative Fee
Administrative           shall accrue interest at a rate of 1 ½ percent per month and, in addition, for all amounts not paid
fee              1-10-2H the petitioner(s) or applicant(s) shall be required to pay to the Village   to the Village within
                         an administrative fee                                                       thirty (30) days after
                                                                                                     being invoiced
Annexation fee
(refundable if   1-10-6  Annexation fee                                                              $1,000.00 for each acre,
annexation not                                                                                       or any fraction thereof
approved)
Nonrefundable                                                                                        That amount established by
convenience fee          Nonrefundable convenience fee payable to the Village for use of a credit    the Village Treasurer from
for use of               card for payment of any amount(s) owed to the Village, which shall be       time to time, which shall
credit card for  1-10-9  consistent with the conditions set forth in section                         be consistent with the
payment of any           1-10-9 of this chapter                                                      conditions set forth in
amount(s) owed                                                                                       section
to the Village                                                                                       1-10-9 of this chapter
 
Note:
    1.    5 ILCS 140.
TITLE 2: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS1, 2, 3
Type Village Code Section Description Amount
Type            Village Code Description      Amount
                Section
                             Non-refundable
                             business license
                             fee required to
                             be paid to the
                             Village on or
                             before May 1 of
                             each fiscal year
                             by any person
                             establishing,
                             maintaining,
                2-2-3,       operating, or
License fee     2-2-6,       conducting any   $100.00 per fiscal year, or
(nonrefundable) 2-2-16       business,        portion thereof
                             occupation or
                             establishment
                             which is or will
                             be located in a
                             B (Business), O
                             (Office and
                             Research), or M
                             (Manufacturing
                             and Industrial)
                             Zoning District
                             of the Village
                             Class A liquor
                             license fee -
Liquor license               retail sale in   $2,500.00 per year (license
fee             2-3-6A       original         renewal: $2,500.00)
(nonrefundable)              package, not for
                             consumption on
                             premises
                             Class B liquor
                             license fee -
Liquor license               retail sale and
fee             2-3-6B       serving,         $2,500.00 per year (license
(nonrefundable)              consumption on   renewal: $2,500.00)
                             premises (all
                             alcoholic
                             liquor)
                             Class C liquor
Liquor license               license fee -    $2,000.00 per year (license
fee             2-3-6C       retail sale and  renewal: $2,000.00)
(nonrefundable)              serving, golf
                             club
                             Class D liquor
                             license fee -
Liquor license               retail sale and  $2,000.00 per year (license
fee             2-3-6D       serving,         renewal: $2,000.00)
(nonrefundable)              consumption on
                             premises (beer
                             and wine)
                             Class E liquor
                             license fee -
                             retail sale and
                             serving, not-
Liquor license               for- profit      $50.00 (see subsection 2-3-6E of
fee             2-3-6E       corporations,    this Code for license renewal
(nonrefundable)              organizations    conditions)
                             and lodges
                             (temporary sales
                             and service - 24
                             hour term)
                             Class F liquor
                             license fee -
                             retail sale and
Liquor license               serving, outdoor
fee             2-3-6F       premises (see    $250.00 per year
(nonrefundable)              subsection
                             2-3-6F of this
                             Code for license
                             conditions)
                             Class F.2 liquor
                             license fee -
                             retail sale and
Liquor license               serving, outdoor
fee             2-3-6F.2.    premises (see    $500.00 per year
(nonrefundable)              Subsection
                             2-3-6F.2 of this
                             Code for license
                             conditions)
                             Class G liquor
                             license fee -
                             retail sale and
                             serving,
                             consumption on
Liquor license               premises (snack  $2,000.00 per year (license
fee             2-3-6G       bar and/or       renewal: $2,000.00)
(nonrefundable)              restaurant
                             within and
                             accessory to a
                             sports and
                             fitness
                             facility)
                             Class H liquor
                             license fee -    $2,000.00 per year (license
                             retail sale,     renewal: $2,000.00); provided,
                             beer and wine in however, in the event the
Liquor license               the original     licensee also holds a valid Class
fee             2-3-6H       package          B liquor license issued pursuant
(nonrefundable)              container but    to this Code, then in such event,
                             not for          the Class H license fee shall be
                             consumption on   $500.00 per year
                             the premises of
                             sale
Liquor license               Class I liquor   $250.00 per year (license
fee             2-3-6I       license fee -    renewal: $250.00)
(nonrefundable)              brewpub
Liquor license               Class K liquor
fee             2-3-6J       license fee -    $50.00 per event (no separate
(nonrefundable)              temporary event  application fee)
                             license
Liquor license               Class L liquor
fee             2-3-6K       license fee -    $100.00 per year (license
(nonrefundable)              bring your own   renewal: $100.00)
                             wine bottle
Liquor license               Class M liquor
fee             2-3-6L       license fee -    $50.00 per license year
(nonrefundable)              caterer license
                             Class N liquor
Liquor license               license fee -    $2,000.00 per license year, or
fee             2-3-6M       gas station      part thereof (license renewal:
(nonrefundable)              convenience      $2,000.00)
                             store
                             Class O liquor
                             license fee: In
                             connection with
                             a retail goods
                             establishment,
                             retail sale,
Liquor license               serving, and
fee             2-3-6N       consumption of   $250.00 per year
(nonrefundable)              alcoholic liquor
                             on licensed
                             premises (see
                             Subsection
                             2-3-6N of this
                             Code for license
                             conditions)
Duplicate                    Duplicate liquor $5.00 (if original license fee
liquor license               license fee, due was $100.00 or less)
fee             2-3-15       to loss or       $25.00 (if original license fee
(nonrefundable)              destruction of   was more than $100.00)
                             original
License fee     2-4-3        Restaurant       $100.00 per year
(nonrefundable)              license fee
License fee                  Itinerant
(nonrefundable) 2-4-3        restaurant,      $5.00 per day
                             license fee
                             Application fee
                             for a
Application fee              certificate of   $100.00 (plus surety bond - see
(nonrefundable) 2-5-3        registration for below)
                             itinerant vendor
                             or transient
                             merchant
                                              Amount of surety bond to be
                             Surety bond to   deposited with the Village shall
                             be deposited     be equal to 50 percent of the
                             with the Village wholesale value of the
Surety Bond     2-5-3        by each          merchandise applicant intends to
                             itinerant vendor offer for sale, but in any event,
                             or transient     said bond shall be not less than
                             merchant         $1,000.00 nor more than
                                              $10,000.00
                             Massage
                             establishment
Processing fee  2-6-16       license, fee for $15.00
                             change of
                             location
                             Massage
Massage                      establishment    $15.00 for initial application,
establishment   2-6-18       license fee,     and $15.00 for any renewal
license fee                  payable with     application
                             application
                                              Amount of bond shall be
                             Amusement        sufficient to cover the estimated
Cash bond       2-7-5        facility cash    tax which shall become due by the
                             bond             operation of the amusement or
                                              amusement facility, but not less
                                              than $500.00
                                              Based on aggregate prize value:
                                              Aggregate Prize
                                              Value
                             Raffle license   Less than       License Fee None
License fee     2-9-5        fee, payable     $500.00         $ 5.00
                             with application $501.00 to      25.00
                                              $5,000.00
                                              $5,001.00 and
                                              over
 
NOTES:
   1.   For the Fiscal Year May 1, 2020 through April 30, 2021: The Corporate
Authorities of the Village do hereby temporarily waive, suspend, and/or reduce
to zero ("0.0") the application of that portion of the fee chart relative to
liquor license fees, business license fees, restaurant license fees, massage
establishment fees, and amusement device fees otherwise required to be paid to
the Village for the fiscal year May 1, 2020 through April 30, 2021. [NOTE:
Although this time period has passed, this Section is being restated for
purposes of the clarity and accuracy of this Amended and Restated Ordinance as
part of the public record.]
   2.   For the Fiscal Year May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022: The Corporate
Authorities of the Village do hereby temporarily waive and suspend, and/or
retroactively waive and suspend the application of that portion of the fee
chart relative to liquor license fees, business license fees, restaurant
license fees, massage establishment fees, and amusement device fees otherwise
required to be paid to the Village for the fiscal year May 1, 2021 through
April 30, 2022.
   3.   For the Fiscal Year May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023: The Corporate
Authorities of the Village do hereby temporarily reduce by fifty percent (50%)
the application of that portion of the fee chart relative to liquor license
fees, business license fees, restaurant license fees, massage establishment
fees, and amusement device fees otherwise required to be paid to the Village
for the fiscal year May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023.
TITLE 3: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
None
TITLE 4: POLICE REGULATIONS1, 2, 3
 
Type               Village Code Description          Amount
                   Section
                                Amusement device
                                license fee and
                                sticker, each
Coin operated                   amusement device     $100.00 per
amusement device   4-1-9        (sticker shall be    amusement device,
license fee, plus               valid for 1 year     per year or portion
sticker                         beginning May 1 and  thereof
                                ending April 30 of
                                the next consecutive
                                year)
                                                     $50.00 per license,
Coin operated                   Amusement device     per month, or
amusement device   4-1-9        license late fee     portion thereof
license, late fee                                    submitted after
                                                     April 30
                                                     The base service
                                                     charge is $50.00 for
                                                     each false alarm
                                                     (4th through 6th
                                                     false alarm in any
                                False alarm service  calendar year), 7th
Service charge,                 charge (first 3      and succeeding false
false alarm        4-2-3        false alarms are     alarm in any
                                without charge)      calendar year,
                                                     service charge is
                                                     increased by an
                                                     additional amount
                                                     equal to 100 percent
                                                     of the base service
                                                     charge
                                A nonrefundable
                                initial registration
Registration Fee                fee and thereafter
for Beekeeping and              an annual
Apiaries           4-3-11       nonrefundable        $25.00 Per Year
(Nonrefundable)                 registration fee for
                                beekeeping and
                                apiaries
                                 
                                                   
 
NOTES:
   1.   For the Fiscal Year May 1, 2020 through April 30, 2021: The Corporate
Authorities of the Village do hereby temporarily waive, suspend, and/or reduce
to zero ("0.0") the application of that portion of the fee chart relative to
liquor license fees, business license fees, restaurant license fees, massage
establishment fees, and amusement device fees otherwise required to be paid to
the Village for the fiscal year May 1, 2020 through April 30, 2021. [NOTE:
Although this time period has passed, this Section is being restated for
purposes of the clarity and accuracy of this Amended and Restated Ordinance as
part of the public record.]
   2.   For the Fiscal Year May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022: The Corporate
Authorities of the Village do hereby temporarily waive and suspend, and/or
retroactively waive and suspend the application of that portion of the fee
chart relative to liquor license fees, business license fees, restaurant
license fees, massage establishment fees, and amusement device fees otherwise
required to be paid to the Village for the fiscal year May 1, 2021 through
April 30, 2022.
   3.   For the Fiscal Year May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023: The Corporate
Authorities of the Village do hereby temporarily reduce by fifty percent (50%)
the application of that portion of the fee chart relative to liquor license
fees, business license fees, restaurant license fees, massage establishment
fees, and amusement device fees otherwise required to be paid to the Village
for the fiscal year May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023.
TITLE 5: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
 
Type            Village Code Description      Amount
                Section
                             Motor vehicle
                             sticker (not
Vehicle sticker 5-1-3        mandatory)       $5.00 per vehicle
fee                          (sticker shall
                             be valid for 2
                             calendar years)
                                                               The minimum fine
                                              A. Fine for      provided from
                                              violation of     time to time by
                                              parking reserved the Illinois
                                              for persons with Motor Vehicle
                                              disabilities     Code, 625 ILCS
                                                               5/11-1301.3
                                              B. Fine for
                                              violation of     $100.00
                                              fire lane
                                              C. Fine for each
                                              parking or
                                              compliance
                                              violation, but
                                              the fine shall
                                              be $75.00 after
                                              the initial
                                              notice and
                                              opportunity for
                             Fine to be paid  a hearing (i.e., 50.00
                             to the Village   for any fine
                             for each         entered by
Fine for each                violation of     default by
violation of                 title 5, chapter reason of the
title 5,                     3 of this Code,  defendant's
chapter 3,                   except as        failure to
"Parking", of   5-3-9        otherwise        appear), except
this Code,                   specified in     as specified in
except as                    this Code, and   subsection A or
otherwise                    each day a       B above
specified in                 violation occurs For purpose of this Code, a
this Code                    or continues     "compliance violation" means a
                             shall constitute violation of any Village
                             a separate       regulation relative to the
                             offense          condition or use of equipment on
                                              a vehicle, the display of a
                                              Village sticker (i.e., a
                                              Municipal Wheel Tax license) or
                                              expired vehicle registration
                                              Notwithstanding the foregoing,
                                              all parking or compliance
                                              violations, except as specified
                                              in subsections A and B above, may
                                              be settled prior to hearing
                                              without any admission of
                                              liability as follows: A
                                              prehearing settlement of a fine
                                              will be accepted by the Village
                                              if payment of the settlement
                                              amount of $30.00 per offense is
                                              made by payment to the Village
                                              within 14 calendar days after the
                                              date of the citation or notice of
                                              violation is issued
 
TITLE 6: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Type Village Code Section Description Amount
Type            Village Code Description       Amount
                Section
                             Application fee
                             for permit for
Permit fee      6-3-1        street            $300.00
                             construction,
                             maintenance and/
                             or repair
                             Surety bond to be
                             deposited with
Surety Bond                  the Village for   $2,500.00, or such larger amount
(conditionally  6-3-5        application for   as determined by the Village
refundable)                  street            President or his or her designee
                             construction,
                             maintenance and/
                             or repair permit
                                               For each point of access:
                                               1. No highway
                                               improvement     $ 300.00
                                               required
                                               2. Restricted   350.00
                                               access
                                               3. Right turn   400.00
                                               lane required
                             Application fee   4. Bypass lane  500.00
                             for installation  required
                             or repair of      5. Right turn
Driveway permit              driveway or other lane and bypass 750.00
fee             6-4-3        means of ingress  lane required
                             and egress, and/  6. Left turn    1,000.00
                             or traffic signal lane required
                             installation      7. Right turn
                                               lane and left   1,500.00
                                               turn lane
                                               required
                                                               1,000.00 (plus
                                               8. Traffic      the fee amount
                                               signal          based on type of
                                               installation    other highway
                                                               improvement
                                                               required)
                             Nonrefundable
                             application fee
                             to be paid to the
                             Village for a
                             permit for
                             facilities
                             construction in a
                             public right- of-
                             way, unless
                             exempted by the
Application fee              Simplified
relative to                  Municipal
facilities                   Telecommunication $1,000.00 payable with and at
construction in              Tax Act or unless the time of application, i.e.,
public rights-  6-9-4F       otherwise         other than permits related to
of- way, except              provided below    the collocation of small
as otherwise                 and by section    wireless facilities
provided in                  6-9-21 of this
this section                 Code, and except
                             as provided
                             herein.
                             Nonrefundable
                             permit
                             application fee
                             to be paid to the
                             Village with and
                             at the time of
                             application for
                             any such permit
Permit
application fee
for the
placement of up
to 5 separate
wireless
facilities on
or adjacent to
a Village
utility pole                 Nonrefundable
located in a                 permit
public right-                application fee   $500.00 for up to 5 separate
of-way within                to be paid to the small cell facilities payable
the Village or  6-9-21       Village with and  with and at the time of
on or adjacent               at the time of    application
to a Village                 application for
wireless                     any such permit
support
structure
within the
Village,
whether or not
such deployment
includes a new
pole or a
replacement
pole
Permit
application fee
for the
placement of
more than 5
separate small
wireless
facilities on                Nonrefundable
or adjacent to               permit            $100.00 for each such additional
a Village                    application fee   small cell facility covered by a
utility pole    6-9-21       to be paid to the single application beyond 5
located in a                 Village with and  payable with and at the time of
public right-                at the time of    application
of-way within                application for
the Village or               any such permit
on or adjacent
to a Village
wireless
support
structure
within the
Village
                             Annual recurring
                             fee to be paid to
Annual                       the Village on or
recurring fee                before January 1
payable to the               of each year, for
Village to                   each respective
collocate each               fiscal year, for
small wireless               each small
facility on or               wireless facility
adjacent to a                located on or
Village utility              adjacent to a
pole located in 6-9-21       Village utility   $200.00 per year, for each such
a public right-              pole or on or     small wireless facility
of-way within                adjacent to a
the Village or               Village wireless
on or adjacent               support structure
to a Village                 located within
wireless                     the Village,
support                      unless such fee
structure                    is modified by a
within the                   final order
Village                      issued by a court
                             of competent
                             jurisdiction
 
TITLE 7: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Type Village Code Section Description Amount
Type            Village Code Description      Amount
                Section
                             Contractor's
                             license: No
                             person, firm,
                             partnership,
                             corporation, or
                             other entity
                             shall engage as
                             a general
                             contractor,
                             subcontractor,
                             or construction
                             manager for
                             electrical,
                             heating, air
                             conditioning,
                             sewer work,
                             water, septic,
Contractor's                 or sewage
license fee     7-1-11       disposal         $100.00
                             systems, storm
                             sewer, fence,
                             concrete,
                             driveway, patio,
                             roadway, or
                             construction
                             work of any
                             nature and
                             description
                             unless they
                             possess a
                             current license
                             to do business
                             in the Village.
                             Licenses are
                             valid for 12
                             months from date
                             of issuance.
Building permit fees, new construction 1 :
                                              $150.00 Minimum. Additional fees
                                              and costs may also apply. The
                             Minimum Permit   applicant is also required to pay
Building Permit              Fee: Residential any out-of-pocket expenses
Fee, Minimum                 (Applies to all  incurred by the Village,
Fee For         7-2-6A       permits except   including but not limited to the
Residential                  as expressly     review and approval of the permit
                             noted.)          applicant's plans, and for
                                              inspection of the property, the
                                              site, and the work authorized by
                                              the permit.
                                              $550.00 Additional fees and costs
                                              may also apply. The applicant is
Application fee                               also required to pay any out-of-
for new                      Application fee  pocket expenses incurred by the
Residential                  due at time of   Village, including but not
construction    7-2-6A       application for  limited to the review and
(Non-refundable              new residential  approval of the permit
)                            (Non-refundable) applicant's plans, and for
                                              inspection of the property, the
                                              site, and the work authorized by
                                              the permit.
                             Building permit  $1.20 per square foot (entire
                             fee for all new  building), plus plan review and
                             residential      site development fees.
                             construction     Additional fees and costs may
                             (Per square foot also apply.
Building Permit              fees for new     The applicant is also required to
Fee, For New    7-2-6A       residential      pay any out-of-pocket expenses
Residential                  construction     incurred by the Village,
Construction                 include          including but not limited to the
                             structural,      review and approval of the permit
                             mechanical,      applicant's plans, and for
                             HVAC, plumbing   inspection of the property, the
                             and electrical)  site, and the work authorized by
                                              the permit.
                                              $550.00 Additional fees and costs
Application fee              Application fee  may also apply. The applicant is
for new                      due at time of   also required to pay any out-of-
commercial                   application for  pocket expenses incurred by the
construction                 new commercial   Village, including but not
and all other   7-2-6A       construction and limited to the review and
new projects                 all other new    approval of the permit
(Non-refundable              projects except  applicant's plans, and for
)                            as noted         inspection of the property, the
                             (Non-refundable) site, and the work authorized by
                                              the permit.
                             Building permit
                             fee for all new  $20.00 per $1,000.00 of total
                             commercial       project cost, or part thereof
                             construction     (entire building) plus fire
                             (Commercial new  suppression and site development
                             construction     permits, including structural,
                             includes, but is mechanical, HVAC, plumbing and
                             not limited to,  electrical. Additional fees and
Building Permit              new buildings    costs may also apply. The
Fee, For New    7-2-6A       and additions.   applicant is also required to pay
Commercial                   Charge per each  any out-of-pocket expenses
Construction                 $1,000.00 of     incurred by the Village,
                             total project    including but not limited to the
                             cost, or part    review and approval of the permit
                             thereof,         applicant's plans, and for
                             includes         inspection of the property, the
                             structural,      site, and the work authorized by
                             mechanical,      the permit.
                             HVAC, plumbing
                             and electrical)
                             Minimum permit   $250.00 minimum. Additional fees
                             fee for          and costs may also apply. The
Building Permit              commercial and   applicant is also required to pay
Fee, Minimum                 all other        any out-of-pocket expenses
Fee For                      permits, except  incurred by the Village,
Commercial and  7-2-6A       residential      including but not limited to the
all other                    (Applies to all  review and approval of the permit
projects,                    permits except   applicant's plans, and for
except as noted              as noted.        inspection of the property, the
                             Additional fees  site, and the work authorized by
                             and costs may    the permit.
                             also apply.)
Application Fee              Application fee  Application fee  $150.00
and Permit Fee               and permit fee   for Residential
for                          due at time of
Installation of              application for
New Well and    7-2-6A       installation of
Septic System                a new well and   Application fee  $250.00
(Residential or              septic system    for Commercial
Commercial/Non-              (Residential or
Refundable )                 Commercial/Non-
                             refundable)
                             Permit Fee for
                             installation of
                             new well and
Permit Fee for               septic system,
Installation of              except where
New Well and                 structure is     $300.00 plus plan review and
Septic System   7-2-6A       connected to     inspection fees
(Residential or              public sewer and
Commercial)                  water service
                             for both new
                             residential and
                             new commercial
                             projects.
Occupancy                    Occupancy permit
permit fee,     7-2-6A       fee for all new  $200.00
residential                  residential
                             construction
Application and
Permit Fees
(Combined) for               Application and
installation of              permit fees
fire                         (combined) due
sprinklers,     7-2-6A       at time of       $150.00 plus plan review and
fire                         application for  inspection fees
suppression                  all residential
and/or for                   systems.
alarm system(s)              (Non-refundable)
(Residential/
Non-refundable)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fees
Permit Fees                  (combined) due
(Combined) for               at time of
installation of              application for
fire                         installation of
sprinklers,     7-2-6A       fire sprinklers, $250.00 plus plan review and
fire                         fire             inspection fees
suppression,                 suppression, and
and alarm                    alarm system(s)
system(s)                    commercial and
(Commercial/                 all other
Non-refundable)              projects.
                             (Non-refundable)
Application fee
for                          Application fee
installation of 7-2-6A and   due at time of
New Sewer       Title 13 of  application for  $250.00 plus plan review and
Connection      Village Code commercial       inspection fees
(Commercial or               installation.
Residential/                 (Non-refundable)
Non-refundable)
Permit Fee for               Permit fee for
Installation of 7-2-6A and   installation of  $150.00, plus plan review fees,
New Sewer       Title 13 of  new sewer system inspection fees, and other
Connection      Village Code connection.      applicable tap-on fees
(Commercial or               (Commercial or
Residential)                 Residential)
Application fee
for                          Application fee,
installation of              due at time of   $550.00 plus plan review fees and
New Parking     7-2-6A       application      inspection fees
lots                         (Commercial/
(Commercial/                 Non-refundable)
Non-refundable)
Permit Fee for               Permit fee for
Installation of              installation of  $1,500.00 plus plan review fees
New Parking     7-2-6A       all new parking  and inspection fees
lots                         lots, commercial
(Commercial)
                             Occupancy permit
Occupancy                    fee for all new
Permit Fee,                  commercial
Commercial and  7-2-6A       construction,    $250.00
All Other New                and for all
Projects,                    other new
except as noted              projects except
                             as noted.
                             Site development
Site            7-2-6A,      permit fee for
development     7-4-4        all new          $1,000.00
permit fee                   residential
                             construction
                             Site development
                             permit fee for
Site                         all new
Development     7-2-6A,      commercial       $2,000.00, plus plan review and
Permit Fee      7-4-4        construction and inspection fees
                             for other new
                             projects except
                             as noted
                             Site development
Site                         permit fee for
development     7-2-6A,      accessory        $500.00
permit fee      7-4-4        structures,
                             additions,
                             swimming pools
Site                         Site development
development     7-2-6A       permit fee for   $1,100.00
permit fee                   new subdivisions
                             Site development
                             permit fee for
Site                         all other types
development     7-2-6A       of development   $750.00
permit fee                   and
                             miscellaneous
                             engineering
                             projects
Alterations, remodeling, build-outs, and accessory structures1:
                             Application fee,
                             due at time of
                             application for
                             commercial and
                             all other
                             construction
                             projects except
                             as noted. (Non-
                             refundable)
                             The applicant is
Application Fee              also required to
for Commercial               pay any out-of-
and all other                pocket expenses
construction    7-2-6A       incurred by the  $550.00
projects except              Village,
as noted                     including but
(Non-refundable              not limited to
)                            the review and
                             approval of the
                             permit
                             applicant's
                             plans, and for
                             inspection of
                             the property,
                             the site, and
                             the work
                             authorized by
                             the permit.
                             Permit fee for
                             interior build-
Building Permit              outs,            $20.00 per $1,000.00 of total
Fees, for                    remodeling, and  project cost (entire building),
Commercial and  7-2-6A       accessory        plus fire protection and site
all other                    structures.      development permits, including
projects except              Commercial and   structural, mechanical, HVAC and
as noted                     for all other    electrical (but not plumbing)
                             projects except
                             as noted.
Permit Fees for
Plumbing,
Commercial and  7-2-6A       Plumbing permit  $50.00 per fixture
for all other                fees, commercial
projects except
as noted
                             Occupancy permit
Occupancy                    fee (build-outs,
Permit Fee for               additions, and
Commercial and               accessory
for all other   7-2-6A       buildings) for   $200.00
projects except              commercial and
as noted                     for all other
                             projects except
                             as noted.
                             Application fee,
                             due at time of
                             application for
                             residential
                             construction
                             (other than new
                             projects). The
                             applicant is
                             also required to
                             pay any out-of-
Application Fee              pocket expenses
for                          incurred by the
(Residential,                Village,
other than new  7-2-6A       including but    $150.00
projects/                    not limited to
(Non-refundable              the review and
)                            approval of the
                             permit
                             applicant's
                             plans, and/or
                             inspection of
                             the property,
                             site and the
                             work authorized
                             by the permit
                             (Non-
                             refundable).
                             Building permit  $1.00 per square foot. Per square
Building permit              fee for          foot amount includes HVAC,
fees,           7-2-6A       residential      electrical, plus plan review fees
residential                  additions and/or and inspection fees, but not
                             remodeling       plumbing or fire protection
Building Permit              Building permit  $0.50 per square foot. Per square
Fees for                     fee for          foot amount includes HVAC and
Residential     7-2-6A       residential      electrical, plus plan review fees
Accessory                    accessory        and inspection fees, but not
Structure                    structures.      plumbing or fire protection.
Plumbing Permit              Plumbing permit
Fees,           7-2-6A       fee for          $50.00 per fixture
Residential                  residential
                             structures.
                             Occupancy permit
                             fees for build-
Occupancy                    outs, additions,
permit fees,    7-2-6A       and accessory    $150.00
residential                  buildings for
                             residential
                             structures.
Application and              Application and
Permit Fee, for              permit fees, due $100.00 permit fee, plus non-
Building Permit              at time of       refundable application fees of
for Deck or     7-2-6A       application for  $150.00 for Residential, and
Patio Fees                   decks and        $250.00 for Commercial, plus plan
(Residential                 patios.          review and inspections costs
and Commercial)              (Residential or
                             Commercial)
Application Fee              Application and
and Permit Fee,              permit fee, due  Application Fee $150.00, Permit
For Building                 at time of       Fee $150.00, includes two (2)
Permit          7-2-6A       application for  inspections and plan review (No
(Balconies)                  a balcony        other charges)
(Non-refundable              (Non-refundable)
)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due  $100.00 permit fee, plus non-
Permit Fee, For              at time of       refundable application fee of
Building Permit 7-2-6A       application for  $150.00 for Residential, and
(Deck Posts)                 deck posts (only $250.00 for Commercial, and
                             posts being      inspection fees
                             replaced).
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due
Permit Fee, For              at time of
Driveway Permit              application for  $150.00 for Residential, and
(Commercial or  7-2-6A       a driveway       $250.00 for Commercial, includes
Residential/                 permit.          two (2) inspections
Non-refundable)              (Commercial or
                             Residential/
                             Non-refundable)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due
Permit Fee for               at time of
Fire                         application for
Suppression,                 installation of  $150.00, plus plan review fees
Sprinkler, and  7-2-6A       fire             and inspection fees
Alarm Systems                suppression,
(Residential/                sprinkler, and
Non-refundable)              alarm systems.
                             (Residential/
                             Non-refundable)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due
Permit Fee for               at time of
Fire                         application for
Suppression,                 installation of  $250.00, plus plan review fees
Sprinkler and   7-2-6A       fire             and inspection fees
Alarm Systems                suppression,
(Commercial/                 sprinkler, and
Non-refundable)              alarm systems.
                             (Commercial/
                             Non-refundable)
Application                  Application fee,
Fee, For                     due at time of
Installation of              application, for
a Lawn                       installation of  $150.00 Application fee for
Irrigation      7-2-6A       a lawn           Residential, $250.00 Application
System                       irrigation       fee for Commercial
(Commercial and              system
Residential/                 (Commercial or
Non-refundable)              Residential/
                             Non-refundable)
Building Permit              Permit Fee for
Fee for                      installation of
Installation of              a lawn
a Lawn          7-2-6A       irrigation       $100.00 permit fee for each, plus
Irrigation                   system           plan review and inspection fees
System                       (Commercial or
(Commercial or               Residential)
Residential)
                             Application fee,
Application Fee              due at time of
for Parking Lot              application, for
Improvements    7-2-6A       parking lot      $550.00
(Commercial/                 improvements
Non-refundable)              (Commercial/
                             Non-refundable)
                             Permit fee for
                             removing and
Parking Lot                  replacing        $1,000.00 (Plus application fee,
Permit Fee      7-2-6A       existing parking plan review fees, and inspection
(Commercial)                 lot, plus        fees)
                             striping
                             (Commercial)
                             Permit fee for
                             regrinding and
Parking Lot                  overlay of       $500.00 (Plus application fee,
Permit Fee      7-2-6A       existing parking plan review fees, and inspection
(Commercial)                 lot, plus        fees)
                             striping
                             (Commercial)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due
Permit Fee for               at time of
Roofing         7-2-6A       application, for $150.00, includes two (2)
(Residential -               roofing work,    inspections
Single-Family/               residential,
Non-refundable)              single-family
                             (Non-refundable)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due
Permit Fee for               at time of
Roofing                      application, for
(Residential -               roofing work,    $250.00, includes plan review and
Townhomes or    7-2-6A       residential,     two (2) inspections
Condominiums)                multi-family
(Non-refundable              townhomes or
)                            condominiums,
                             per building
                             (Non-refundable)
                             Application and
Application and              permit fee, due
Permit Fee for               at time of       $250.00, includes two (2)
Roofing         7-2-6A       application, for inspections
(Commercial/                 roofing work
Non-refundable)              (Commercial/
                             Non-refundable)
                             Application fee,
                             due at time of
Application Fee              application, for
for Septic or                septic or sewer  $150.00, includes interior
Sewer System    7-2-6A       system           inspection only, plus inspection
Connection                   connection,      fees (1 or 2 inspections)
(Non-refundable              installation,
)                            replacement and/
                             or alteration
                             (Non-refundable)
Application Fee              Application fee,
for                          due at time of
Installation of              application, for $150.00 Application fee for
Solar Panels    7-2-6A       installation of  Residential, $250.00 Application
(Residential or              solar panels,    fee for Commercial
Commercial)                  Residential or
(Non-refundable              Commercial
)                            (Non-refundable)
Permit Fee for
Installation of              Permit fee for   $100.00, plus plan review fees
Solar Panels    7-2-6A       installation of  and inspection fees
(Residential or              solar panels
Commercial)
Application Fee              Application fee,
for                          due at time of
Installation of 7-2-6A       application, for $150.00
a Swimming Pool              installation of
(Non-refundable              a swimming pool
)                            (Non-refundable)
Swimming pool                Swimming pool    $1,000.00, plus plan review fees,
permit fee      7-2-6A       permit fee       site development fee, and two (2)
                                              inspections
                             Application fee,
Application Fee              due at time of
for                          application, for
Installation,                installation of
Replacement,                 a water supply,
and/or                       whether private  $150.00 for Residential, and
Alteration of a 7-2-6A       well or          $250.00 for Commercial
Water Supply                 connection to
(Commercial or               Village water
Residential/                 main.
Non-refundable)              (Commercial or
                             Residential/Non-
                             refundable)
                             Water supply
                             permit fee for
                             new well
                             installation or  $250.00, includes interior
Water supply    7-2-6A       new Village      inspection only plus inspection
permit fee                   water main       fees
                             connection (such
                             as for an
                             additional
                             service line).
                             Water supply
Water supply    7-2-6A       permit fee for   $150.00, plus inspection fees
permit fee                   replacement or
                             alteration
Miscellaneous permits, fees and deposits1:
Carnival permit 7-2-6A       Carnival ride    $75.00 for each ride
fees                         permit fee
Carnival permit 7-2-6A       Carnival stand   $25.00 for each, minimum of
fees                         permit fee       $50.00
                             Application fee,
Application Fee              due at time of
for Demolition               application, for
of a Structure  7-2-6A       demolition of a  $550.00, including inspection
(Residential/                structure,
Non-refundable)              residential
                             (Non-refundable)
                              
Permit Fee for               Permit fee for
Demolition of a 7-2-6A       demolition of a  $150.00, including inspection
Structure                    residential
(Residential)                structure
                             Application fee,
Application Fee              due at time of
for Demolition               application, for
of a Structure  7-2-6A       demolition of a  $1,100.00, including inspection
(Commercial/                 structure,
Non-refundable)              commercial
                             (Non-refundable)
Permit Fee for               Permit fee for
Demolition of a 7-2-6A       demolition of a  $150.00, including inspection
Structure                    commercial
(Commercial)                 structure
                             Application fee,
Application Fee              due at time of
for Early Start              application, for
Foundation      7-2-6A       early start      $550.00
(Residential/                foundation.
Non-refundable)              (Residential/
                             Non-refundable)
Early Start                  Early start
Permit Fees,    7-2-6A       foundation       $450.00, plus plan review fees
Residential                  permit fee,      and inspection fees
                             residential
                             Application fee,
Application Fee              due at time of
for Early Start              application, for
Foundation      7-2-6A       early start      $1,100.00
(Commercial/                 foundation.
Non-refundable)              (Commercial/
                             Non-refundable)
Building Permit              Early start
Fee for Early                foundation       $600.00, plus plan review fees
Start           7-2-6A       permit fee,      and inspection fees
Foundation,                  commercial
Commercial
                             Application fee,
                             due at time of
Application Fee              application, for
for                          installation of
Installation of              elevators,
an Elevator     7-2-6A       escalators,      $250.00
(Commercial/                 dumbwaiters, and
Non-refundable)              wheelchair lifts
                             ("Elevators")
                             (Commercial /
                             Non-refundable)
                             Permit fees for
                             installation of
Elevator Permit              elevators,       $150.00, plus plan review fees
Fee             7-2-6A       escalators,      and inspection fees
(Residential)                dumbwaiters, and
                             wheelchair lifts
                             ("elevators")
                             Application fee,
                             due at time of
Application Fee              application, for
for                          installation of
Installation of              elevators,
an Elevator     7-2-6A       escalators,      $250.00
(Commercial/                 dumbwaiters, and
Non-refundable)              wheelchair lifts
                             ("Elevators")
                             (Commercial/
                             Non-refundable)
                             Permit Fee for
                             installation of
Elevator permit              elevators,       $500.00, plus $25.00 for each
fee             7-2-6A       escalators,      floor served, plus plan review
(Commercial)                 dumbwaiters, and fees and inspection fees
                             wheelchair lifts
                             ("Elevators")
                             (Commercial)
                             Extension of
                             permit term for
                             a residential
                             permit, at the
                             discretion of
                             the Building
Extension of                 Commissioner, if
permit          7-2-6A and   the Building     $150.00 for up to 90 days
(Residential)   7-2-5E       Commissioner
                             finds such
                             extension has
                             not resulted
                             from any fault
                             of the property
                             owner or of the
                             permit holder
                             Extension of
                             permit term for
                             a commercial
                             permit, at the
                             discretion of
                             the Building
Extension of                 Commissioner, if
permit          7-2-6A and   the Building     $250.00 for up to 90 days
(Commercial)    7-2-5E       Commissioner
                             finds such
                             extension has
                             not resulted
                             from any fault
                             of the property
                             owner or of the
                             permit holder
Application and              Application and
Permit Fee for               permit fee, due
Installation of              at time of       $150.00 Residential, $250.00
a Fence         7-2-6A       application, for Commercial, includes two (2)
(Non-                        installation of  inspections
refundable)                  a fence. (Non-
                             refundable)
                             Occupancy permit
                             fee for motel,
Occupancy       7-2-6A       hotel,           $40.00 per separately occupied
permit fee                   dormitories,     unit
                             nursing homes,
                             apartments
Application Fee              Application fee,
for                          due at time of
Installation of              application, for
a Permanent                  installation of
Wall or Ground  7-2-6A       a permanent wall $250.00
Sign                         or ground sign
(Residential or              (Residential or
Commercial/Non-              Commercial/Non-
refundable)                  refundable)
                             Permit fee for
Ground Sign     7-2-6A       installation of  $250.00, plus plan review fees
permit fee                   a permanent      and inspection fees
                             ground sign
Wall Sign,                   Permit fee for   $200.00, plus plan review fees
Permit Fee      7-2-6A       permanent wall   and inspection fees
                             sign
Temporary Sign,              Permit fee for
Permit Fee                   temporary sign   $100.00, maximum display time of
(only when      7-2-6A       (only when       90 days total in a 12-month
permit                       permit required) period
required)
                             Fee for removal
                             of Stop Work
Building permit              Order and        2 times permit fees (i.e., $1.00
fees            7-2-6A       surcharge for    for each $1.00 of applicable
                             doing work       permit fees), up to $5,000.00
                             without a
                             required permit
                             Fee for a
                             certificate of
Temporary                    temporary        $500.00; May not exceed six (6)
Occupancy       7-2-6A       occupancy        months in length
permit fee                   permit, whether
                             commercial or
                             residential
LAKE BARRINGTON SHORES: PERMITS AND RELATED FEES
                                                               $250.00
                                              Concrete         application fee,
                                              sidewalk(s),     plus the payment
                                              repair or        of any plan
                                              replacement      review fee(s)
                                                               and inspection
                                                               fee(s)
                                                               $250.00
                                                               application fee,
                                              Resurfacing,     plus the payment
                                              repair, and/or   of any plan
                                              replacement of   review fee(s)
                                              driveways        (Inspections
                                                               shall be made by
                                                               the LBCHA.)
                                                               $250.00
                                                               application fee,
                                              Resurfacing or   plus the payment
                                              repair of        for any
                                              roadway          engineering fees
                                                               incurred by the
                                                               Village
                                              Removal and/or
                                              replacement of
                                              existing private
                                              road, and/or     $250.00
                                              addition of a    application fee,
                                              new private      plus the payment
                                              road, and/or     for any
                                              repair or        engineering fees
                                              replacement of   incurred by the
                                              any private road Village
                                              which requires
                                              the base to be
                             Application fee, reconstructed
                             due at time of   and replaced
                             application, and                  $250.00
                             other fees to be Fence repair     application fee,
Application and              paid to the      and/ or          plus the payment
Other Fees for               Village for      replacement      of any plan
Permits                      issuance of a                     review fee(s)
Relative to                  Blanket Building Installation
Work Within the 7-2-14A      Permit which may and/or repair of
Lake Barrington              be issued to the retaining walls
Shores Planned               Lake Barrington  48 inches in
Development                  Community        height or
("LBS")                      Homeowners'      greater (no
                             Association      permit or fee
                             ("LBCHA") for    shall be
                             those projects   required for
                             identified       work on
                             herein.          retaining walls
                                              which are less
                                              than 48 inches   $250.00
                                              in height.) Any  application fee,
                                              retaining wall   plus the payment
                                              constructed by   of plan review
                                              an individual    and inspection
                                              unit owner       fee(s)
                                              within LBS or
                                              the contractor
                                              for the unit
                                              owner shall be
                                              addressed by
                                              other provisions
                                              of this Village
                                              Code. (A
                                              building
                                              structural
                                              repair permit
                                              may also be
                                              required.)
                                              Storm sewers(a   $250.00
                                              building         application fee,
                                              structural       plus the payment
                                              repair permit    of plan review
                                              may also be      and engineering
                                              required.)       fees incurred by
                                                               the Village
                                                               Actual cost
                                                               billed to the
                                                               Village by
                                              Plan review fee  Village
                                                               inspector(s)
                                                               and/or Village
                                                               Engineer(s)
                                              Roof replacement $250.00
                                              (multi-family    application fee
                                              roofing permit)  (includes 2
                                              (one permit will inspections) for
                                              be issued for    each building.
                                              each entire      Each additional
                                              building)        inspection shall
                                                               be $50.00.
                                              Building
                                              structural
                                              repairs
                                              (excludes
                                              interior work in $250.00
                                              an individual    application fee,
                                              condominium unit plus the payment
                                              and other unit   of plan review
                                              owner items such fee(s) and
                                              as windows and   inspection fee
                                              doors); outside  (s)
                                              storage closets
                                              (project/
                                              structural
                                              repair permit
                                              required)
                                              fireplaces:
                                              repair or
                                              replacement of
                                              any component
                                              below the
                             Project Permit:  roofline the     $150.00
                             Application fee, condominium unit application fee,
Application and              due at time of   owner is         plus the payment
Other Fees for               application, and required to      of any plan
Permits                      other fees to be obtain a permit. review and/or
Relative to                  paid to the      (this is the     inspection fee
Work Within the 7-2-14 B     Village, for a   same process as  (s)
Lake Barrington              Project Permit   window and
Shores Planned               which may be     exterior door
Development                  issued to the    permits. These
("LBS")                      LBCHA or to a    components are
                             Condominium      not the HOA's
                             Association      responsibility.)
                                                               $250.00
                                                               application fee,
                                              Work relative to plus the payment
                                              Lake Barrington  of any plan
                                              and/or related   review,
                                              shoreline (in    engineering,
                                              some cases, a    and/or
                                              watershed        inspection fee
                                              development      (s), and
                                              permit shall     reimbursement to
                                              also be          the Village of
                                              required.)       any other costs
                                                               incurred
                                                               relative to said
                                                               project
                                                               $150.00
                                              Sanitary sewers  application fee,
                                              (unit to lateral plus the payment
                                              line)            of plan review
                                                               and inspection
                                                               fee(s)
                                                               Actual cost
                                                               billed to the
                                                               Village by
                                              Plan review fee  Village
                                                               inspector(s)
                                                               and/or Village
                                                               Engineer(s)
                                              Inspection fee   $50.00 for each
                                                               inspection
                             Open burning
                             permit fee
                             (No fee, but
Open burning    7-3-4        application and  No fee.
permit                       notification of
                             neighboring
                             property owners
                             required)
 
Note:
   1.    All fees relative to title 7 of this Code are non-refundable, unless
otherwise indicated.
TITLE 8: ZONING
 
Type                Village Code Description          Amount
                    Section
                                 Tents are viewed as
                                 accessory structures
                                 by the Village's
                                 Building Department,
                                 and the fee(s) for a
                                 Temporary Use Permit
                                 for any tent, or
                                 other temporary
                                 structure which will
                                 be maintained on the
                                 same lot or parcel
                                 for a period of not
                                 more than 15 days in
                                 the aggregate during
Tents and Other                  any calendar year or
Temporary                        during any twelve    (Various; See
Structures          8-3-10(C)(5) (12) month period,   "Description")
(Commercial)                     shall consist of the
                                 respective fee(s)
                                 for the following
                                 permits fees, if
                                 applicable: (i) an
                                 application fee,
                                 (ii) an electric
                                 permit fee, (iii) a
                                 plumbing permit fee,
                                 and (iv) an
                                 occupancy permit
                                 fee, which fees are
                                 applicable to an
                                 accessory structure,
                                 in addition to any
                                 fire inspection fee.
                                 For a tent or other  $50.00 non-
Application and                  temporary structure  refundable
Permit Fees for                  144 square feet or   application and
Tents 144 square    8-3-10(C)(5) less, combined       permit fee for
feet or less -                   application and      permit valid up to
(Residential or                  permit fee required  15 days, plus plan
Commercial)                      to be paid at time   review and
                                 of application       inspection costs
                                                      $100.00 non-
                                                      refundable
                                                      Application and
                                 For a tent or other  permit fees due at
                                 temporary structure  the time of
Application and                  larger than 144      application; plus
Permit Fees                      square feet,         $200.00 permit fee,
(combined) for      8-3-10(C)(5) combined application plus plan review and
Tents larger than                and permit fee       inspection costs.
144 square feet -                required to be paid  Tents up longer than
(Commercial)                     at time of           15 days are subject
                                 application.         to an additional
                                                      permit fee of
                                                      $200.00 for each 15-
                                                      day permit
                                                      extension.
                                 Signage bond for
                                 variation hearing,
                                 signage bond,
                                 refundable: Each     $50.00 per sign
                                 petitioner for a     (refunded upon
Signage bond for                 variation shall post return of each sign
variation hearing,  8-10-2       a bond with the      within 10 days
refundable                       Village for each     following conclusion
                                 sign erected to      of public hearing
                                 notify the public of for which sign was
                                 public hearing       posted)
                                 scheduled relative
                                 to the requested
                                 variation
                                 Signage bond for
                                 special use hearing,
                                 refundable: Each     $50.00 per sign
                                 petitioner for a     (refunded upon
                                 special use shall    return of each sign
Signage bond for                 post a bond with the within 10 days
special use         8-10-2       Village for each     following conclusion
hearing, refundable              sign erected to      of public hearing
                                 notify the public of for which sign was
                                 public hearing       posted)
                                 scheduled relative
                                 to the requested
                                 variation
                                 Zoning permit fee
Fee, zoning permit  8-11-3       which must accompany $300.00
                                 application for a
                                 zoning permit
 
TITLE 9: SUBDIVISIONS
 
Type            Village Code Section Description          Amount
                                     Each petitioner
                                     relative to an
                                     application for
                                     subdivision
                                     approval, an
                                     application for a
                                     special use, an
                                     application for
                                     annexation, and/or   Petitioner shall
                                     an application for   reimburse the Village
                                     rezoning shall be    for actual costs
                                     required to          incurred by the
                                     reimburse the        Village for the
Cost of Signage 9-3-8                Village for each     Village's sign
                                     sign erected to      contractor to create,
                                     notify the public of post on the
                                     the public hearing   respective property,
                                     scheduled relative   and remove the
                                     to such application. required public
                                     A minimum of one (1) hearing signage.
                                     public hearing sign
                                     is and shall be
                                     required to be
                                     posted on a
                                     property, which
                                     shall be visible
                                     from an adjacent
                                     right-of-way.
 
TITLE 10: FLOOD CONTROL
 
Type                Village Code Description          Amount
                    Section
                                 Fee to accompany any
                                 application,
                                 petition or request
                                 for any permit,
                                 approval, appeal,
                                 variation, and/or
                                 review required by
                                 the provisions of    $400.00, plus such
                                 the Lake County      additional fee as is
                                 watershed            sufficient to
Fee, minimum                     development          reimburse the
administrative      10-1-4A,     ordinance, or any    Village for the
(nonrefundable)     10-1-4B      combination thereof. estimated time spent
                                 (In addition to the  by various Village
                                 minimum              employees in
                                 administrative fee,  connection with such
                                 applicant or         request
                                 petitioner is also
                                 obligated to
                                 reimburse the
                                 Village for all
                                 expenses incurred by
                                 the Village relative
                                 to said request.)
                                 Cash deposit to
                                 accompany any
                                 application,
                                 petition or request
                                 for any permit,
                                 approval, appeal,
                                 variation, and/or
                                 review required by
                                 the provisions of
                                 the Lake County      $1,500.00 minimum
                                 watershed            deposit, plus
Cash deposit,                    development          $100.00 per acre or
initial (refundable 10-1-4C      ordinance, or any    fraction thereof
balance)                         combination thereof. within the subject
                                 (In addition to the  property
                                 minimum
                                 administrative fee,
                                 applicant or
                                 petitioner is also
                                 obligated to
                                 reimburse the
                                 Village for all
                                 expenses incurred by
                                 the Village relative
                                 to said request.)
                                 Where it appears
                                 that such
                                 application,
                                 petition or request
                                 will involve
                                 additional
                                 expenditures by the
Cash deposit,                    Village, the
additional (balance              applicant or
of deposit(s) not   10-1-4D      petitioner is        As determined by the
expended is                      required to deposit  Village
refundable)                      such additional
                                 amounts necessary to
                                 pay the estimated
                                 amount of such
                                 expenses and
                                 charges. Such
                                 deposit(s) may be
                                 increased from time
                                 to time
                                                      $400.00, plus such
                                 If rereview of a     additional fee as is
                                 project is required  sufficient to
                                 due to major         reimburse the
Fee, minimum                     redesign, the        Village for the
administrative      10-1-4H      payment of the       estimated time spent
(nonrefundable)                  minimum              by various Village
                                 administrative fees  employees in
                                 shall again be       connection with such
                                 required             request, with total
                                                      fees not to exceed
                                                      $800.00
 
TITLE 11: TREES AND PLANTS
 
Type              Village Code Section Description          Amount
                                       Tree replacement fee
                                       in lieu: In the
                                       event a site cannot
                                       accommodate all of
                                       the required
                                       replacement trees, a $1,210.00 fee
                                       fee in lieu of such  charged is based
Fee in lieu of                         replacement trees    upon a current
replacement trees 11-1-5F              shall be paid to the estimated cost for
                                       Village based upon   each replacement
                                       an estimated cost    tree and planting
                                       for each replacement thereof
                                       tree and planting
                                       thereof as approved
                                       by the Village
                                       Administrator, or
                                       his or her designee
                                       A permit is required
                                       for a person,
                                       corporation, public
                                       utility company or
                                       its agent, or other
                                       entity, except a
                                       person or contractor
                                       authorized by the
                                       Village, to plant,
                                       treat, prune, trim,
Permit, tree      11-1-7               remove, attach an    No fee is due for
                                       object to, or        such permit
                                       otherwise disturb
                                       any tree, shrub, or
                                       other plant on
                                       Village property, or
                                       to dig a tunnel or
                                       trench on Village
                                       property (see
                                       section
                                       11-1-7 of this Code
                                       for further details)
 
TITLE 12: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Type Village Code Section Description Amount
Type                Village Code Description          Amount
                    Section
                                 Construction permit
                                 fee for construction
                                 or repair of
                                 individual sewage
                                 disposal system.
                                 Note: Only a person,
                                 company, or other
                                 entity having a
                                 current, valid       $280.00 - Design
                                 private sewage       flow less than 1,500
                    12-10-2,     system installation  gallons per day
Septic permit fee,  12-16-6,     contractor's license  
construction        12-16-8      may apply for and    $400.00 - Design
                                 obtain the required  flow greater than
                                 construction permit  1,500 gallons per
                                 from the Village for day
                                 construction and/or
                                 repair of any
                                 individual sewage
                                 disposal system.
                                 Such permit must be
                                 posted on the job
                                 site in a prominent
                                 location
                                 Permit fee for
                                 alteration(s) or
                                 addition(s) to
Septic permit fee,               individual sewage
alterations and     12-16-8      disposal system -    $280.00
additions                        increased water
                                 usage/square footage
                                 increase greater
                                 than 50 percent
                                 Permit fee for
                                 alteration(s) or
                                 addition(s) to
Septic permit fee,               individual sewage
alterations and     12-16-8      disposal system - no $140.00
additions                        water increase/
                                 square footage
                                 increase less than
                                 50 percent
                                 Alternative system
                                 permit fee:
Septic permit fee,  12-16-8      Construction of      $500.00
alternative system               alternative
                                 individual sewage
                                 disposal system
Septic permit fee,  12-16-8      Permit fee for       $280.00
property alteration              property alteration
Septic fee, for                  Fee - request for a
request for         12-16-8      variation, an appeal $300.00
variations and/or                request, or hearing
appeals
Septic fee, to                   Reinstate expired
reinstate expired   12-16-8      individual sewage    $100.00
septic permit                    disposal system
                                 permit
Septic fee          12-16-5,     Soil identification/ $200.00 per lot
                    12-16-8      evaluation, per lot
Septic fee          12-16-8      Holding tank         $150.00
                                 agreement
                                 Holding tank
Septic fee          12-16-8      agreement renewal    $130.00
                                 (every 6 months)
                    12-16-4,     Subdivision -
Septic fee, review  12-16-8      initial review, per  $110.00 per lot
                                 lot
                    12-16-4,     Subdivision -
Septic fee, review  12-16-8      resubmittal review,  $30.00 per lot
                                 per lot
Septic fee, sludge  12-16-8      Sludge disposal site $500.00
disposal site
                                 Cash performance
                                 bond must be
                                 deposited with the
                                 Village prior to
                                 issuance of any
                                 permit under title
Septic bond, septic              12 of this Code for
cash performance    12-16-9      any alteration(s) or $1,000.00 per system
(conditionally                   repair(s) to an
refundable)                      existing individual
                                 sewage disposal
                                 system or for the
                                 installation of each
                                 such new individual
                                 sewage disposal
                                 system
 
TITLE 13: WATER AND SEWERS
Type Village Code Section Description Amount
Type            Village Code Description       Amount
                Section
                             Annual fee to be  Each fee is      
                             paid to the       "per device"
                             Village for       1. Annual       $65.00
                             inspection(s) and inspection fee
                             reinspection(s)   Plus:
                             of required       Administrative  15.00
                             interceptors for  fee
                             fats, oils,       Total annual    80.00
                             grease, and sand  inspection fee
Fee for annual               (per device).     2. Fee for each 65.00
inspection(s)                (Inspection fees  reinspection
and                          and reinspection  Plus:
reinspection(s)              fees for required Administrative  15.00
of required     13-3-2       interceptors for  fee
interceptors                 fats, oil,
for fats, oils,              grease, and sand,
grease, and                  and the related
sand (per                    administrative
device)                      fees, shall be
                             included in the   Total
                             bi- monthly sewer reinspection    80.00
                             and water         fee
                             invoices for the
                             property and/or
                             for the premises
                             where each such
                             device is
                             located.)
                             Building sewer
                             permit fee shall
                             accompany
Building sewer               application for a
permit and      13-3-4       building sewer    $100.00
inspection fee               permit. (This fee
                             is in addition to
                             other required
                             connection fees.)
                             Water and sewer   Domestic Water  Fee
                             fee to connect    Line Size
                             property to the   1" diameter     $4,125.00
                             special service   Greater than 1"
                             area number three and up to and   6,638.00
                             water and         including 11/2"
                             sanitary sewer    diameter
                             systems paid      Greater than
Sanitary sewer  13-4-6       pursuant to       11/2" and up to 10,013.00
connection fee               intergovernmental and including
                             agreement with    2" diameter
                             the Village of
                             Fox River Grove.
                             There is no                       Fee determined
                             separate          Greater than 2" by Board of
                             connection charge                 Trustees
                             for a sprinkler
                             system
                             Water and sewer
                             basic service
                             charge begins on
                             the first day of
                             the month at
                             least 60 days
                             after notice to
Water and sewer              property owner
basic service   13-5-6A      that premises is  $110.00 per month
charge                       required to be
                             connected to the
                             Lake Barrington
                             business and
                             industrial park
                             sanitary sewer
                             system and water
                             system
                                               For each 1,000 gallons or
                                               fraction thereof of metered
                                               water usage:
                                               Effective May 1, 2015 - April
                                               30, 2016: $11.42
Water and sewer              Water and sewer   Effective May 1, 2016 - April
usage charge    13-5-6B      usage charge      30, 2017: $11.76
                                               Effective May 1, 2017 - April
                                               30, 2018: $12.11
                                               Effective May 1, 2018 - April
                                               30, 2019: $12.47
                                               Effective May 1, 2019 - April
                                               30, 2020: $12.84
                                               For each 1,000 gallons or
                                               fraction thereof, per 1,000
                                               gallons of metered bulk water
                                               usage:
                                               Effective May 1, 2015 - April
Water and sewer              Water and sewer   30, 2016: $4.77
metered bulk    13-5-6C      metered bulk      Effective May 1, 2016 - April
usage charge                 usage charge      30, 2017: $4.91
                                               Effective May 1, 2017 - April
                                               30, 2018: $5.06
                                               Effective May 1, 2018 - April
                                               30, 2019: $5.21
                                               Effective May 1, 2019 - April
                                               30, 2020: $5.37
                             Treatment service
                             surcharge shall
                             be levied to all
                             sewer users whose
                             wastewater        $0.22 per pound of BOD in excess
Sewage                       exceeds the       of 0.17 pound per 100 gallons
treatment       13-5-6D      normal            $0.17 per pound of suspended
service                      concentrations of solids in excess of 0.10 pound
surcharge                    200 milligrams    per 100 gallons
                             per liter of BOD
                             and 250
                             milligrams per
                             liter of
                             suspended solids
                             In addition to
                             the basic water
                             and sewer service
                             charges and water
                             and sewer usage
                             fees as set forth
                             in subsection 13-
                             5-6B of this
                             Code, a
                             supplemental
                             sewer and water
                             charge shall be   For each 1,000 gallons or
                             paid by the owner fraction thereof, of metered
                             and/or occupant   water usage:
Supplemental                 of the property   Effective May 1, 2015 - April
sewer and water              in order to       30, 2016: $36.33
charge where                 provide an        Effective May 1, 2016 - April
the property is 13-5-6F      equitable         30, 2017: $37.42
or is eligible               contribution      Effective May 1, 2017 - April
to be tax                    toward the cost   30, 2018: $38.54
exempt                       of providing the  Effective May 1, 2018 - April
                             capital           30, 2019: $39.70
                             infrastructure of Effective May 1, 2019 - April
                             and the financing 30, 2020: $40.89
                             thereof, which
                             charges shall be
                             paid by each user
                             of such services
                             where the
                             property of such
                             user is or is
                             eligible to be
                             declared exempt
                             from Real Estate
                             Taxes
                             If water or sewer
                             service charges
                             remain unpaid for
                             a period of 40
                             days after
                             rendition of the
                             bill for such
                             service, water
                             and sewer service
Reinstatement                to a premises may
of water and/or 13-5-11      be shut off. Such $50.00
sewer service                service shall not
fee                          be reinstated
                             until all past
                             due bills and
                             penalties thereon
                             are paid in full,
                             together with the
                             payment of a fee
                             to cover the cost
                             of reinstating
                             said service
                             An annual fee for
                             certification of
                             required cross
                             connection
                             control devices
                             is required to be
Annual cross                 paid for each     Fee per device on a
connection      13-7-8       device on a       premises   $75.00
certification                premises. This    Administrative fee    15.00
fee                          fee is included   Total fee, per device    90.00
                             as part of the
                             bimonthly billing
                             period for each
                             cross connection
                             control device
                             certified
                             The premises of a
                             consumer who
                             violates a
                             provision of
                             title 13, chapter
                             7 of this Code
                             may be
                             disconnected from
Reconnection    13-7-10D     the public water  $50.00
fee                          supply system,
                             and a
                             reconnection fee
                             shall be paid to
                             the Village after
                             the condition
                             which caused the
                             violation is
                             corrected
                             A permit must be
                             obtained from the
                             Village in order
                             to store certain
                             chemicals on
Chemical                     property located
substance       13-8-9       within the        No application fee
storage permit               Village, and the
                             duration of such
                             permit shall be
                             determined by the
                             Village
                             Administrator
 
(Ord. 2008-O-15, 4-1-2008; amd. Ord. 2008-O-25, 9-2-2008; Ord. 2009-O-18, 12-1-
2009; Ord. 2009-O-20, 12-1-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; Ord. 2009-O-21, 12-1-2009; Ord.
2010-O-09, 5-4-2010; Ord. 2011-O-13, 5-3-2011; Ord. 2011-O-25, 11-1-2011; Ord.
2011-O-27, 12-6-2011; Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013; Ord. 2013-O-07, 6-5-2013, eff.
retroactive to 4-26-2013; Ord. 2013-O-12, 9-3-2013; Ord. 2014-O-15, 11-5-2014;
Ord. 2014-O-19, 12-2-2014; Ord. 2015-O-08, 5-5-2015; Ord. 2017-O-12, 5-2-2017;
Ord. 2018-O-06, 4-3-2018; Ord. 2018-O-12, 6-6-2018, eff. 7-1-2018; Ord. 2018-O-
15, 7-10-2018; Ord. 2018-O-16, 7-10-2018; Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; Ord. 2018-
O-18, 9-4-2018; Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018; Ord. 2019-O-03, 4-
2-2019; Ord. 2019-O-12, 12-10-2019; Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2020-O-12,
5-5-2020; Ord. 2022-O-03, 2-1-2022; Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022; Ord. 2023-O-06,
3-2-2023; Ord. 2023-O-08, 3-2-2023; Ord. 2023-O-15, 6-13-2023; Ord. 2024-O-11,
5-9-2024; Ord. 2024-O-12, 8-6-2024; Ord. 2024-O-17, 10-7-2024; Ord. 2025-O-13,
7-1-2025)
1-10-8: PAYMENT REQUIRED FOR ALL LAWFUL DEBTS AND/OR OBLIGATIONS LEGALLY DUE
THE VILLAGE PRIOR TO CERTAIN VILLAGE ACTION(S):
Whenever any person is required by this Code, or any other ordinance of the
Village, or any State or Federal law, to submit, or wishes to submit, any
plans, specifications or other documents to the Village to be reviewed and/or
approved by the Village, or to have any other matter or thing reviewed,
approved, or inspected by the Village (and/or by any board, commission,
officer, employee, or agent of the Village), or wishes to make an inquiry of
the Village, other than an inquiry made pursuant to the Freedom of Information
Act, the person making such request and/or inquiry of the Village and/or
submitting documents to the Village for review and/or approval, and/or
requesting one or more inspection(s), shall be required to pay and/or reimburse
the Village, prior to any substantive Village action on any such person's
request and/or inquiry, for any and all lawful debts and legal obligations due
and owing the Village, including but not limited to the following:
   A.   Any and all amounts due or payable to the Village pursuant to any
Village ordinance or State or Federal Statute;
   B.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village for any tax(es),
license(s), permit(s), fee(s);
   C.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village for any Special
Service Area Taxes payable to the Village;
   D.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village as reimbursement of
expense(s) incurred by the Village on behalf of such person(s) and/or for the
real or personal property of such person(s);
   E.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village for any statutory
liens of record in favor of the Village against such person(s) and/or against
the title to any of such person's real property within the Village; and
   F.   Any final money judgments entered against one or more of such person(s)
in favor of the Village by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by an
Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer having such jurisdiction, and due
and owing the Village.
No substantive action on any such request or inquiry shall occur or be taken by
any officer, employee, or agent of the Village until such time as the Village
Treasurer, or his or her designee, certifies that all debts and obligations due
and owing to the Village have been paid in full. The provisions of this section
shall be applicable whether or not the request or inquiry for Village action is
being made by the same legal entity which is legally obligated to pay the
Village any specific lawful debt or legal obligation, or by a different legal
entity, if the person or legal entity making the request has any substantial
ownership or other pecuniary interest and/or serves in a managerial capacity in
both entities. (Ord. 2017-O-17, 9-5-2017)
1-10-9: CREDIT CARD FEES:
   A.   The Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to establish and impose fees
on any person making payment to the Village by credit card for any amounts due
and owing to the Village for the purpose of offsetting the amount of any
discount or processing fee imposed upon the Village by the respective credit
card company. Such fees shall not exceed the amount of any such discount or
processing fee imposed upon the Village by the respective credit card company
and shall only be imposed if such imposition is permitted under the operating
rules and regulations of the respective credit card company.
   B.   No fee, or accumulation of fees, that exceeds the lesser of twenty
dollars ($20.00) or five percent (5%) of the principal amount charged may be
imposed in connection with the issuance of any license, sticker, or permit, or
with respect to any other similar transaction. No fee, or accumulation of fees,
that exceeds the lesser of five dollars ($5.00) or five percent (5%) of the
transaction involved may be imposed in connection with the payment of any fine.
No fee, or accumulation of fees, in excess of the lesser of forty dollars
($40.00) or three percent (3%) of the principal amount charged may be imposed
in connection with the payment of any real estate or other tax.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section, a
minimum fee of one dollar ($1.00) will be imposed with respect to any
transaction.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section, a fee
in excess of the limits in subsection B of this section may be imposed by the
Village on a transaction if: 1) the fee imposed by the Village is no greater
than a fee charged by the financial institution or service provider accepting
and processing credit card payments on behalf of the Village; 2) the financial
institution or service provider accepting and processing the credit card
payments was selected by competitive bid; and 3) the Village fully discloses
the amount of the fee to the cardholder. (Ord. 2018-O-15, 7-10-2018)
CHAPTER 11
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-11-1: Adoption Of Official Comprehensive Plan
1-11-2: Comprehensive Land Use Plan Map
1-11-3: Recording Of Plats
1-11-1: ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Village of Lake Barrington Official Comprehensive Plan, which has been
prepared by Houseal Lavigne Associates, recommended to the Corporate
Authorities by the Plan Commission and subsequently revised by the Corporate
Authorities and dated April 3, 2018 (a copy of which is on file in the Office
of the Village Clerk), is hereby adopted and made the Official Comprehensive
Plan of the Village of Lake Barrington, for public improvements and for the
guidance of the present and future development of the Village and its environs,
including but not limited to territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles of
the corporate limits of the Village. The Village of Lake Barrington subdivision
regulations, as amended from time to time and as set forth in title 9 of this
Code are made part of this Official Comprehensive Plan and are hereby
incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 2018-O-07, 4-3-2018)
1-11-2: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN MAP:
Said Official Comprehensive Plan as adopted in section
1-11-1 of this chapter includes, but is not limited to, the map relative to
property within the Village and contiguous unincorporated territory within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the Village which is "The Comprehensive Land Use
Plan Map of the Village of Lake Barrington", which is labeled as "Future Land
Use" and is found in the aforesaid Official Comprehensive Plan on page 49
thereof. (Ord. 2018-O-07, 4-3-2018)
1-11-3: RECORDING OF PLATS:
After the passage hereof, no map or plat of any subdivision presented for
recording affecting land within the corporate limits of the Village or in
contiguous territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate
limits shall be entitled to be recorded and shall be valid unless the
subdivision thereon shown shall be in conformity with the requirements
applicable thereto in the Village of Lake Barrington Official Comprehensive
Plan, and in conformity with the Village of Lake Barrington subdivision
regulations as amended from time to time and as set forth in title 9 of this
Code. (Ord. 2006-O-39, 12-5-2006)
CHAPTER 12
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Title
1-12-2: Scope
1-12-3: Definitions
1-12-4: Notices
1-12-5: Late Payment
1-12-6: Payment
1-12-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-12-8: Audit Procedure
1-12-9: Appeal
1-12-10: Hearing
1-12-11: Interest And Penalties
1-12-12: Abatement
1-12-13: Installment Contracts
1-12-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-12-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-12-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-12-17: Internal Review Of Liens
1-12-18: Application
1-12-19: Severability
1-12-1: TITLE:
The title of this chapter shall be LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS
AND RESPONSIBILITIES. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them
as follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX (OR TAX): Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance and/or any paragraph, section, chapter, or title
of this municipal code that imposes any locally imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Illinois. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First-class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any requests for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days, nor more
than thirty (30) days, from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer, or tax
collector, fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-12-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be six
percent (6%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2001-O-
07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application, but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-
2001)
1-12-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-17: INTERNAL REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance or any tax
provision of this code is in conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter,
this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
1-12-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-O-07, 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 13
EMERGENCY SERVICES DISASTER AGENCY AND OPERATIONS PLAN
SECTION:
1-13-1: Establishment
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Coordinator; Assistant Coordinator
1-13-4: Functions
1-13-5: Service As Mobile Support Team And Compensation Therefor
1-13-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
1-13-7: Emergency Action
1-13-8: Compensation
1-13-9: Reimbursement By The State And/Or The Federal Government
1-13-10: Purchases And Expenditures
1-13-11: Oath
1-13-12: Emergency Operations Plan Approval
1-13-13: Emergency Powers Of The Village President
1-13-14: Emergency Interim Executive Succession
1-13-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the Village of Lake Barrington Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency ("ESDA"), the duties of which agency shall be to respond to any
declared "state of emergency", as hereinafter defined, and to prevent,
minimize, repair and/or alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster
caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or
man made disaster, in accordance with "the Illinois Emergency Services and
Disaster Act" 1 . The Village ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator, the
Assistant Coordinator, and such additional members as may be selected by the
Coordinator. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305, sometimes referred to herein as the "State Act".
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
words and terms used in this chapter have the respective meanings ascribed to
them in the State Act and/or in the Illinois Emergency Interim Executive
Session Act 1 , provided, however, whenever any of the following terms are used
in this chapter, they shall have the meaning indicated.
ATTACK: Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
CURFEW: Curfew shall mean that period of time during which any person or
persons are prohibited from being present at or upon any public assembly,
including but not limited to any public building, place, street, highway,
right-of-way, and/or waterway, including the prohibition of any vehicle
movement, with the exception of fire, police, hospital services, utilities
vehicles and physicians on emergency cases and/or any officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to a
state of emergency duly declared by written executive order pursuant to this
chapter.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of catastrophic and widespread injury or loss
of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause, including, but
not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, epidemic, pandemic, and explosion.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this chapter, in
the event the officer is unavailable, to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of an office until a successor is appointed or elected and qualified as
may be provided by the applicable statutes and/or Village ordinances or until
the lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of the powers and discharge
the duties of the office.
HIGH-RISK GATHERING: Groups of over ten (10) persons which include one (1) or
more members of high-risk populations, but this shall not include or prohibit a
gathering of a single household or living unit.
LARGE GROUP GATHERING: Planned or spontaneous events or groups of persons with
more than two hundred fifty (250) people in attendance, including but not
limited to worship services, sporting events, banquets, and restaurants.
MASS GATHERING: Planned or spontaneous events or groups of persons with one
thousand (1,000) or more people in attendance, including but not limited to,
concerts, festivals, conferences, worship conferences, worship services and/or
sporting events.
OFFICE: Includes all Village offices, the powers and duties of which are
defined by the applicable statutes and/or Village ordinances.
SMALL GROUP GATHERING: Planned or spontaneous event(s) or groups of persons
with fifty (50) or more people in attendance, including but not limited to
worship services, sporting events, banquets, and restaurants.
STATE OF EMERGENCY: State of emergency shall mean circumstances requiring
immediate action as duly declared by written executive order of the Governor or
Village President due to an occurrence or threat of widespread or severe
damage, where extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public
health, safety and welfare from injury or loss of life or property resulting
from any natural or technological cause, including but not limited to fire,
flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous material spill or water contamination
requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, outbreak, epidemic and/or
pandemic of infectious or communicable disease, air contamination, blight,
extended periods of inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages
of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot or hostile enemy, military or
paramilitary action.
UNAVAILABLE: Either a vacancy in office exists and there is no deputy
authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the
office, or the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy exercising
the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a vacancy) and
his duly-authorized deputy are absent or unable to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the office. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-
O-09, 3-20-2020)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 275.
1-13-3: COORDINATOR; ASSISTANT COORDINATOR:
The Village Administrator shall be the Coordinator of the Village ESDA and
shall serve as such Coordinator until and unless a different Coordinator is
appointed by the Village President. The Coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training and operation of
the Village's ESDA, subject to the direction and control of the Village
President as provided by statute, including but not limited to the coordination
of damage assessments within the Village. In the event of the absence,
resignation, death or inability to serve as the Coordinator, the Village
President or any person designated by him or her, shall be and act as
Coordinator until a new Coordinator is appointed by the Village President as
provided in this chapter. The Village Clerk shall serve as the Assistant ESDA
Coordinator and shall perform such duties as specified in the Emergency
Operations Plan, and/or as assigned by the ESDA Coordinator. (Ord. 2018-O-27,
12-4-2018)
1-13-4: FUNCTIONS:
The Village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the Village as shall
be prescribed in the Village Emergency Operations Plan and by the State of
Illinois ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor of the State of
Illinois ("Governor"), and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the Governor, and in addition, shall perform such duties outside
the corporate limits of the Village as may be required pursuant to any mutual
aid agreement with other political subdivision, municipality or quasi-
municipality entered into as provided by the State Act. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-
2018)
1-13-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM AND COMPENSATION THEREFOR:
All or any members of the Village's ESDA may be designated and serve as members
of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA as provided
by law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Village ESDA. Any member of a mobile support team who is a
Village employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or
the State ESDA Director, shall receive the compensation and have the powers,
duties, rights and immunities incident to his or her employment with the
Village or Village office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive from the State such
reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
1-13-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other municipalities
or political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Village Board of Trustees and by
the State Director of ESDA. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
1-13-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor or the Village President declares that a state of emergency
exists in the event of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the
occurrence within the State of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from
enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or from man made or natural disaster,
it shall be the duty of the Village ESDA to cooperate fully with the State
ESDA, with the applicable responding agencies, and with the Governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
1-13-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Village ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the Village,
if called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the
time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such Village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the Village Board
of Trustees. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
1-13-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY THE STATE AND/OR BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
The Village Treasurer or Finance Committee Chairman may receive and allocate to
the appropriate fund, any reimbursement by the State and/or by the federal
government to the Village for expenses incident to training members of the
Village ESDA prescribed by the State Director of ESDA and/or by FEMA,
compensation for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team
while serving outside the Village in response to a call by the Governor or
State Director of ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by
the State and/or by the federal government incident to ESDA activities as
provided by law. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-O-09, 3-20-2020)
1-13-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The Village Board of Trustees, on recommendation of the Coordinator,
may authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the Village in a
position to combat effectively any state of emergency, and to protect the
public health and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, provided, however, if not possible,
practical, or convenient for the Board of Trustees to meet for this purpose,
the Village Treasurer or the Finance Committee Chairperson shall authorize
disbursement of funds upon implementation of the Emergency Operations Plan in
the event a state of emergency has been declared in the Village.
   B.   In the event of a state of emergency, enemy caused or other disaster,
the Coordinator is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for the purpose
of effectively combating such disaster, in view of the exigency without regard
to the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law
pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as authorized by the State Act;
provided, that if the Board of Trustees meets at such time, the Coordinator
shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
1-13-11: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village ESDA shall,
before entering upon his duties, subscribe on oath, as required by statute,
which oath shall be filed with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
1-13-12: EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN APPROVAL:
That Emergency Operations Plan dated and effective January 1, 2023, which is on
file with the Village Clerk and hereby incorporated by reference into this Code
as if fully set forth herein is hereby approved as a guideline for the Village
to respond to a state of emergency and to prevent, minimize, repair, and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from any such disasters caused by enemy
action, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or man-made
disaster. To the extent the provisions of this Code and the aforesaid Emergency
Operations Plan are inconsistent, the less restrictive provisions shall prevail
and control. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-O-17, 12-6-2022)
1-13-13: EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   State Of Emergency:
      1.   Whenever a "state of emergency", as defined in this chapter exists,
all circumstances shall be reported to the Village President. The report shall
include the nature of the emergency, the geographic area or areas involved, and
the specific remedies requested.
      2.   The Village President may declare a state of emergency by written
executive order containing a statement signed by the Village President, under
oath setting forth the following:
         a.   One or more of the conditions which have been met for the
determination of a state of emergency;
         b.   Facts to substantiate such findings;
         c.   A description of the nature of the emergency; and
         d.   Declaration that the state of emergency exists.
This statement must be filed with the Village Clerk as soon as practicable.
      3.   The Village President may exercise the extraordinary power and
authority granted in this chapter when such a state of emergency exists but not
until after signing, under oath, the executive order.
   B.   Power And Authority Granted: Upon declaring a state of emergency, the
Village President may:
      1.   Designate appropriate emergency operations center(s) as identified
in the Emergency Operations Plan;
      2.   Order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
Village or to the Village as a whole, as the Village President deems reasonably
necessary to respond to the emergency, and applicable during such hours of the
day or night as the Village President deems necessary in the interests of the
public safety and welfare;
      3.   Prohibit the sale of any firearms of any size or description and the
sale of ammunition, explosive or other destructive device;
      4.   Prohibit the intentional possession in public view of any firearm by
any person except a duly authorized law enforcement officer or military person
active in the official performance of his/her duty;
      5.   Order the establishment of curfews, including vehicle movement,
except fire, police, hospital services, utilities vehicles and physicians on
emergency cases, and/or order the closing of places of public assembly;
      6.   Prohibit the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages, with or
without payment, or the possession of any portable container containing any
alcoholic beverage by any person in a public place;
      7.   Order the closing of places of public assemblage and/or gathering,
on a case-by-case basis, based upon the different circumstances of each such
gathering or place to slow the transmission of communicable diseases, including
but not limited to restaurant(s), recreational center(s) and sports center(s);
      8.   Modify, postpone, cancel or ban mass gatherings, large group
gatherings, small group gatherings and/or high-risk gatherings to slow the
transmission of communicable diseases;
      9.   Prohibit the sale or transfer or possession of gasoline or other
combustion liquid except for the delivery directly into the tank of a motor
vehicle, boat, or other combustion-propelled vehicle;
      10.   Prohibit the possession in a public place any portable container
containing liquid;
      11.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   C.   Notification: Upon issuance of the executive order declaring a state of
emergency, the appropriate public official shall notify the news media situated
within the Village and shall cause two (2) copies of the executive order
declaring the existence of the state of emergency to be posted at the Village
of Lake Barrington Municipal Center.   
   D.   Duration: A declaration of a state of emergency shall expire not later
than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the Corporate Authorities
after a declaration of disaster and/or a state of emergency is declared and
shall not be continued or renewed in excess of seven (7) days, except by or
with the consent of the Corporate Authorities of this Village.
   E.   Line Of Succession: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter
to the contrary, if the Village President is not available to declare a "state
of emergency" and authorize the implementation of this plan, assume command of,
or to direct the emergency response operations, those responsibilities will
fall to the next person in the following line of succession:
      1.   Senior Village Trustee;
      2.   ESDA Coordinator (Village Administrator);
      3.   Assistant ESDA Coordinator (Village Clerk). (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-
2018; amd. Ord. 2020-O-09, 3-20-2020)
1-13-14: EMERGENCY INTERIM EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as the
EMERGENCY INTERIM EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION ORDINANCE, and this section is enacted
pursuant to the authority of the "Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act" 1
.
   B.   Statement Of Policy: Because of the threats of attack upon the United
States of unprecedented size and destructiveness, and in order to, in the event
of such an attack, assure continuity of government through legally constituted
leadership, authority and responsibility in the offices of the government of
this Village, to provide for the effective operation of this Village government
during an emergency, to assure the continuity of this Village government in the
event of other natural or manmade disasters, and to facilitate the early
resumption of functions temporarily suspended, it is found and declared to be
necessary to provide for additional officers who can exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the incumbents thereof (and their deputies, assistants
or other subordinate officers authorized, pursuant to law, to exercise all of
the powers and discharge the duties of such offices, hereinafter referred to as
deputies) are unavailable to perform the duties and functions of such offices.
   C.   Enabling Authority For Emergency Interim Successors For Village
Offices: With respect to Village offices for which the Board of Trustees of the
Village may hereafter enact such additional resolutions or ordinances relative
to the manner in which vacancies will be filled or temporary appointments to
office made from time to time as it deems appropriate in order to provide for
emergency interim successors to offices of the Village, but such resolutions
and ordinances shall not be inconsistent with the provision of this section.
   D.   Emergency Interim Successors For Village Officers: Such officers,
subject to such regulations as the Village President may issue from time to
time, shall designate by title (if feasible) or by named person, emergency
interim successors and specify their order of succession. The officer shall
review and revise, as necessary from time to time, designations made pursuant
to this section to ensure their current status. The officer will designate a
sufficient number of persons so that there will be not less than three (3), nor
more than seven (7), deputies or emergency interim successors or any
combination thereof, at any time. In the event that any officer of the Village,
or his deputy provided for pursuant to law, is unavailable, the powers of the
office shall be exercised and duties shall be discharged by the designated
emergency interim successors in the order specified. The emergency interim
successor shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to
which designated until such time as a vacancy which may exist shall be filled
in accordance with the Constitution or applicable statutes or ordinances, or
until the officer, or his deputy or a preceding emergency interim successor,
again becomes available to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of his
office.
   E.   Emergency Interim Successors For The Office Of Village President:
Except as otherwise designated in writing by the Village President, the
designated emergency interim successors for the Office of Village President
shall be that Trustee of the Village then holding such office who has the
longest continuous tenure on the Board of Trustees and who is present in the
Village and available to serve as such an emergency interim successor.
   F.   Formalities Of Taking Office: At the time of their designation,
emergency interim successors for any Village office shall take such oath as may
be required for them to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the
office to which they may succeed. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
no person, as a prerequisite to the exercise of the powers or discharge of the
duties of an office to which he succeeds, shall be required to comply with any
other provision of law relative to taking office.
   G.   Period In Which Authority May Be Exercised: Officials authorized to act
pursuant to this section as emergency interim successors are empowered to
exercise the offices, powers, and discharge the duties of an office as herein
authorized only after an attack upon the United States and during a disaster
within the Village. The Board of Trustees may at any time terminate the
authority of such emergency interim successors to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of office as herein provided.
   H.   Removal Of Designees: Until such time as the persons designated as
emergency interim successors are authorized to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of an office in accordance with this section, such persons
shall serve in their existing designated capacities at the pleasure of the
designating authority and may be removed or replaced by said designating
authority at any time, with or without cause. (Ord. 2018-O-27, 12-4-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 275.
CHAPTER 14
IDENTITY PROTECTION AND IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION POLICIES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Definitions
1-14-3: Scope
1-14-4: Identity Protection Policy
1-14-5: Identity Theft Prevention Policy
1-14-6: Additional Identity Theft Prevention Program
1-14-7: Responding To Red Flags
1-14-8: Periodic Updates To The Program
1-14-9: Program Administration
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The risk to the village, its employees, residents, agents, service providers,
and customers from data loss and identity theft is of significant concern to
the village and can be reduced only through the combined efforts of every
employee and contractor. The purpose of this chapter is to comply with 16 CFR
section 681.2 in order to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft by
identifying, detecting, and responding to identity theft red flags and to
comply with the Illinois identity protection act 1  in order to protect social
security numbers from unauthorized disclosure. (Ord. 2011-O-06, 4-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
ACT: The Illinois identity protection act 1 .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The president and board of trustees of the village.
COVERED ACCOUNT: A. An account that the village offers or maintains, primarily
for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to
permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a utility account; and
   B.   Any other account that the village offers or maintains for which there
is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of
the creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance,
reputation, or litigation risks.
CREDIT: The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or
to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
CUSTOMER: A person that has a covered account with the village.
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information of
another person without authority.
PERSON: A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
PUBLICLY POST OR PUBLICLY DISPLAY: To intentionally communicate or otherwise
intentionally make available to the general public.
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
SENSITIVE INFORMATION: Includes the following information:
   A.   Credit card information, including any of the following:
      1.   Credit card number (in part or whole).
      2.   Credit card expiration date.
      3.   Cardholder name.
      4.   Cardholder address.
   B.   Tax identification numbers, including:
      1.   Social security number.
      2.   Business identification number.
      3.   State or federal employer identification number(s).
   C.   Payroll information, including, among other information:
      1.   Paychecks.
      2.   Paystubs.
   D.   Other personal information belonging to any resident, agent, service
provider, customer, employee, or contractor, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Date of birth.
      2.   Address.
      3.   Phone numbers.
      4.   Maiden name.
      5.   Names.
      6.   Customer number.
SERVICE PROVIDER: A person that provides a service directly to the village.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2011-O-
06, 4-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-14-3: SCOPE:
These policies and this protection program apply to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the village, including all
personnel affiliated with third parties. (Ord. 2011-O-06, 4-6-2011)
1-14-4: IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY:
Pursuant to the Illinois identity protection act 1  ("the act"), in order to
protect social security numbers (SSNs) from unlawful use and/or unauthorized
disclosure, the following identity protection policy is hereby adopted:
   A.   The village and all officers, employees, and agents will comply with
the act.
   B.   All employees of the village identified as having access to SSNs in the
course of performing their duties for the village will be trained to protect
the confidentiality of SSNs. Training will include instructions on the proper
handling of information that contains SSNs from the time of collection through
the destruction of the information.
   C.   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain SSNs will have access to such information or documents.
   D.   SSNs requested from an individual will be provided in a manner that
makes the SSN easily redacted if required to be released as part of a public
records request.
   E.   All officers, employees, and agents of the village will redact SSNs
from the information or documents before allowing the public inspection or
copying of the information or documents.
   F.   When collecting an SSN or upon request by the individual, a statement
of the purpose or purposes for which the agency is collecting and using the SSN
will be provided.
   G.   The village and all officers, employees, and agents of the village will
not:
      1.   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's SSN.
      2.   Print an individual's SSN on any card required for the individual to
access products or services provided by the person or entity.
      3.   Require an individual to transmit his or her SSN over the internet,
unless the connection is secure or the SSN is encrypted.
      4.   Print an individual's SSN on any materials that are mailed to the
individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail service,
electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or federal law
requires the SSN to be on the document to be mailed. Notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary in this policy and the act, SSNs may be included in
applications and forms sent by mail, including, but not limited to, any
material mailed in connection with the administration of the unemployment
insurance act, any material mailed in connection with any tax administered by
the department of revenue, and documents sent as part of an application or
enrollment process or to establish, amend, or terminate an account, contract,
or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the SSN. An SSN that is permissibly
mailed under this policy and the act will not be printed, in whole or in part,
on a postcard or other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible
on an envelope without the envelope being opened.
   H.   Except as otherwise provided in this policy and the act, the village
and all officers, employees, and agents will not:
      1.   Collect, use, or disclose an SSN from an individual, unless: a)
required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or regulations, or the
collection, use, or disclosure of the SSN is otherwise necessary for the
performance of that agency's duties and responsibilities; b) the need and
purpose for the SSN is documented before collection of the SSN; and c) the SSN
collected is relevant to the documented need and purpose.
      2.   Require an individual to use his or her SSN to access an internet
website.
      3.   Use the SSN for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was
collected.
   I.   Subsection H of this section does not apply in the following
circumstances:
      1.   The disclosure of SSNs to agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors of the village or disclosure by the village to another
governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors, or subcontractors if
disclosure is necessary in order for the village to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the village will first request and receive from the contractor
or subcontractor a copy of the contractor's or subcontractor's policy that sets
forth how the requirements imposed on the village under this policy and the act
to protect an individual's SSN will be achieved, which policy shall be in a
form acceptable to the village.
      2.   The disclosure of SSNs pursuant to a court order, warrant, or
subpoena.
      3.   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs in order to ensure the
safety of: state and village employees; persons committed to correctional
facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities or retention
centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a state or
village facility.
      4.   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs for internal verification
of administrative purposes.
      5.   The disclosure of SSNs by a state agency to the village for the
collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or to the village
to assist with an investigation or the prevention of fraud.
      6.   The collection or use of SSNs to investigate or prevent fraud, to
conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a credit report from a
consumer reporting agency under the federal fair credit reporting act, to
undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under the federal Gramm
Leach Bliley act, or to locate a missing person, a lost relative, or a person
who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed property
benefit.
   J.   The village and all officers, employees, and agents will not encode or
embed an SSN in or on a card or document, including, but not limited to, using
a bar code, a chip, magnetic strip, or other technology, in place of removing
the SSN as required by this policy and the act.
   K.   This policy and the act do not apply to:
      1.   The collection, use, or disclosure of an SSN as required by state or
federal law, rule or regulation.
      2.   Documents that are recorded with a county recorder or required to be
open to the public under any state or federal law, rule, or regulation,
applicable case law, supreme court rule, or the constitution of the state of
Illinois.
   L.   A written copy of this identity protection policy will be filed with
the president and board of trustees of the village within thirty (30) days
after approval of the policy by its incorporation into this code. The village
will advise its employees of the existence of this policy and make a copy of
this policy available to each of its employees and will also make this policy
available to any member of the public, upon request. If this policy is amended,
then a written copy of the amended policy will be filed with the president and
board of trustees of the village and all employees will be advised of the
existence of the amended policy, and a copy of the amended policy will be made
available to each of the village's employees.
   M.   In order to comply with the provisions of the act, the village will
implement this policy within twelve (12) months after the date this identity
protection policy is approved.
   N.   To the extent that the standards for the collection, use, or disclosure
of SSNs and identity protection are stricter than the standards under the act
with respect to the protection of those SSNs, then, in the event of any
conflict with the provisions of the act, the stricter standards adopted by the
state or the village shall control.
   O.   This policy and the act do not supersede any more restrictive law,
rule, or regulation regarding the collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs. (Ord.
2011-O-06, 4-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-14-5: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION POLICY:
Village personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment in securing
confidential information to the proper extent. Furthermore, this chapter shall
be read and interpreted in conjunction with the Illinois freedom of information
act and the Illinois identity protection act. If an employee is uncertain of
the sensitivity of a particular piece of information, he or she should contact
their supervisor.
   A.   Hard Copy Distribution: Each employee, contractor, and subcontractor
performing work for the village will comply with the following policies:
      1.   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
      2.   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
      3.   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
      4.   Whiteboards, dry erase boards, writing tablets, etc., displaying any
sensitive information, in common shared work areas will be erased, removed, or
shredded when not in use.
      5.   When documents containing sensitive information are discarded they
will be placed inside a locked shred bin or immediately shredded. Municipal
records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance with the local records
act and the village's records retention policy.
   B.   Electronic Distribution: Each employee, contractor, and subcontractor
performing work for the village will comply with the following policies:
      1.   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
village e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
      2.   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the e-mail:
This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and is
intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by
others is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2011-O-06, 4-6-2011)
1-14-6: ADDITIONAL IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Covered Accounts: A covered account includes any account that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions. Every new and
existing customer account that meets the following criteria is covered by this
program:
      1.   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
      2.   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the village from
identity theft, including financial, operations, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   B.   Red Flags: The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud.
Anytime a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent,
it shall be investigated for verification:
      1.   Reporting Agency Alerts: Alerts, notifications or warnings from a
consumer reporting agency;
      2.   Fraud Alert: A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer
report;
      3.   Credit Freeze Notice: A notice of credit freeze from a consumer
reporting agency in response to a request for a consumer report; or
      4.   Address Discrepancy: A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer
reporting agency as defined in section 334.82(b) of the fairness and accuracy
in credit transactions act.
      5.   Inconsistent Activity: Red flags also include consumer reports that
indicate a pattern of activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern
of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
         a.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         b.   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         c.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         d.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      6.   Suspicious Documents:
         a.   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been
altered or forged.
         b.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
         c.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
         d.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the village, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
         e.   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives
the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
      7.   Suspicious Personal Identifying Information:
         a.   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the village. For example:
            (1)   The address does not match any address in the consumer
report;
            (2)   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued or is
listed on the social security administration's death master file; or
            (3)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is
not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
         b.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used
by the village. For example, the address on an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent application.
         c.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party
sources used by the village. For example:
            (1)   The address on an application is fictitious, a maildrop, or a
prison; or
            (2)   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
         d.   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
         e.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of other customers or other persons opening accounts.
         f.   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
         g.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the village.
         h.   When using security questions (mother's maiden name, pet's name,
etc.), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide
authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from
a wallet or consumer report.
      8.   Unusual Use Of Account: Unusual use of, or suspicious activity
related to, the covered account:
         a.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the village received a request for new, additional, or replacement
goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
         b.   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
         c.   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
            (1)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed
payments;
            (2)   A material change in purchasing or usage patterns.
         d.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
         e.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer's covered account.
         f.   The village is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
         g.   The village is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions
in connection with a customer's covered account.
         h.   The village receives notice from customers, victims of identity
theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible
identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the village.
         i.   The village is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft. (Ord. 2011-O-06, 4-
6-2011)
1-14-7: RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS:
   A.   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee should
act quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the
village from damages and loss.
      1.   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all related
documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the village administrator, or his or her designee, for
determination.
      2.   The village administrator, or his or her designee, will complete
additional authentication to determine whether the attempted transaction was
fraudulent or authentic.
   B.   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
should be taken immediately. Actions may include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Canceling the transaction;
      2.   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
      3.   Determining the extent of liability of the village;
      4.   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted; and
      5.   Any other actions the village administrator, or his or her designee,
deems appropriate to further prevent or mitigate identity theft. (Ord. 2011-O-
06, 4-6-2011)
1-14-8: PERIODIC UPDATES TO THE PROGRAM:
   A.   At periodic intervals as may be established in the program, or as
required, the program will be reevaluated to determine whether all aspects of
the program are up to date and applicable in the current business environment.
   B.   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
   C.   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced or
eliminated. Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
   D.   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered may
also require revision to reduce damage to the village and its customers.
   E.   The corporate authorities may consider the following factors in
exercising its discretion in amending the program:
      1.   The village's experiences with identity theft;
      2.   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      3.   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      4.   Updates in the types of accounts that the village offers or
maintains; and
      5.   Updates in service provider arrangements. (Ord. 2011-O-06, 4-6-2011)
1-14-9: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Involvement Of Management:
      1.   The identity protection and the identity theft prevention program
(hereinafter collectively known as "the program") will not be operated as an
extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
      2.   Operational responsibility for the program is delegated to the
village administrator, or any village employee, official, or independent
contractor to whom the village administrator delegates such responsibility
(i.e., his or her designee).
      3.   The village administrator, or his or her designee, shall report to
the corporate authorities on the effectiveness of the program and the
compliance with the regulatory requirements.
      4.   The village administrator, or his or her designee, may also propose
recommendations or any amendments to the program to the corporate authorities.
   B.   Staff Training:
      1.   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials and
contractors who may reasonably be anticipated to come into contact with
accounts or personally identifiable information that may constitute a risk to
the village or its customers, including, but not limited to, its employees,
residents, agents, contractors, and/or service providers.
      2.   The village administrator, or his or her designee, may delegate
staff training responsibilities to a person or persons who will be responsible
for ensuring identity theft training for all requisite employees and
contractors.
      3.   The applicable village employees should receive an initial training
in all elements of this policy and additional training as changes to the
program are implemented by the corporate authorities.
   C.   Oversight Of Service Provider Arrangements:
      1.   It is the responsibility of the village to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
      2.   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention
program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and the Illinois
identity protection act 1  and validated by appropriate due diligence, may be
considered to be meeting these requirements.
      3.   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in the
appropriate contract arrangements. (Ord. 2011-O-06, 4-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 15
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT AND BUSINESS ENTERPRISE PROGRAM PRACTICES
SECTION:
1-15-1: Definitions
1-15-2: Declaration Of Policies
1-15-3: Requirements For Contracts
1-15-4: Program(s)
1-15-5: Exceptions
1-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words, terms, and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Illinois human rights act 1  and the business
enterprise for minorities, females, and persons with disabilities act 2 ,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. (Ord. 2011-O-
20, 10-11-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 775 ILCS 5.
2 2. 30 ILCS 575.
1-15-2: DECLARATION OF POLICIES:
   A.   Equal Employment Practices And Business Enterprise Program Practices:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village of Lake Barrington to
comply with the equal employment practices of 2-105 1  of the Illinois human
rights act 2  and the business enterprise program practices for minority owned
businesses, female owned businesses, and businesses owned by persons with
disabilities of the business enterprise for minorities, females, and persons
with disabilities act 3  and to require any contractor, vendor, financial
institution or labor organization contracting with the village to comply with
these same Illinois statutes. (Ord. 2011-O-20, 10-11-2011)
 
Notes
1 3. 775 ILCS 5/2-105.
2 4. 775 ILCS 5.
3 5. 30 ILCS 575.
1-15-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS:
   A.   The village shall not contract with any contractor, purchase goods or
services from any vendor, maintain any financial relations with any financial
institution, or use the services of any labor organization or member thereof,
which, after an investigation by the village, is found by the village
administrator, to be in violation of the applicable provisions of this chapter,
of the business enterprise for minorities, females, and persons with
disabilities act 1  or the Illinois human rights act 2 , and/or of any other
applicable state or federal regulations, except where such contractor, vendor
or financial institution is the sole source of the particular product or
service being sought by the village and such product or service is essential
for the governmental operations of the village.
   B.   The village shall not contract with any contractor or vendor, maintain
any financial relation with any financial institution, or use the services of
any labor organization or member thereof, which does not first submit to the
village a written commitment to provide equal employment opportunity. Such
commitment shall:
      1.   Set out and agree to maintain specific employment practices and
policies sufficient to achieve the village policies established by this
chapter;
      2.   Agree to make a good faith effort to meet the policies and goals
established by this chapter relative to the award of contracts involving
village funds or funds administered by the village. Goals will be established
annually by the village administrator, or his or her designee;
      3.   Agree to submit to the village upon request written evidence of the
effectiveness of the above required practices, policies and goals;
      4.   Agree to submit to the village upon request statistical data
concerning employee composition or membership composition on any legally
protected status and job descriptions;
      5.   Agree to distribute copies of the commitment set forth in this
chapter to all persons who participate in recruitment, screening, referral and
selection of job applicants, prospective job applicants, or members;
      6.   Agree to require any subcontractor to submit to the village a
written commitment which contains the provisions required by subsections B1
through B5 of this section.
   C.   All contracts by and between the village and any contractor, vendor,
financial institution or labor organization contracting with the village shall
contain the following clauses:
The contractor, vendor, financial institution, or labor organization
(collectively, "entities") will not discriminate (as defined in the Illinois
Human Rights Act) against any employee, applicant for employment, or members.
The entities will take such actions as may be reasonably necessary to comply
with the provisions of Chapter 15 of Title 1 of the Lake Barrington Village
Code ("Chapter 15") and, in particular, the Policies of the Village as set
forth in Section
1-15-2 thereof and will require any subcontractor to submit to the Village
written commitment to do the same. The entities will distribute copies of this
commitment to all persons who participate in recruitment, screening, referral
and selection of job applicants, prospective job applicants, members or
prospective subcontractors. The entities agree that the language of the
commitment shall be and is hereby incorporated by reference, as if set out
verbatim and in its entirety in all Village contracts.
   D.   Any contractor, vendor, financial institution or labor organization
contracting with the village will be required to submit to the village, upon
written request by the village administrator, compliance reports containing
such information as to the practices, policies, programs and statistics of
employee or membership composition based upon any legally protected status and
job description, as may be prescribed by the village administrator and will
require any subcontractor to submit a compliance report upon written request by
the village administrator.
   E.   If any contractor, vendor, financial institution or labor organization
contracting with the village fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the village, at its option, may do any or all of the following:
      1.   Cancel, terminate or suspend the contract in whole or in part;
      2.   Declare the contractor, vendor, financial institution or labor
organization ineligible for further contracts for one calendar year;
      3.   The village administrator is hereby authorized to direct the village
attorney to initiate the prosecution of violations of this chapter to seek
penalties pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this title, and other appropriate relief, against any contractor,
vendor, financial institution, or labor organization which fails to comply with
any applicable provisions of this chapter. Fines shall be imposed for each day
that such entity shall be found to be or to have been in violation of this
chapter by a court of competent jurisdiction or by an administrative
adjudication hearing officer for the village, and each day shall be deemed a
separate offense. Penalties assessed under this chapter may be recovered from
the entity by setoff against the unpaid portion of the contract price, or by
other lawful means;
      4.   Impose such other sanctions as may be determined to be appropriate
by the village administrator pursuant to this chapter and/or the other
provisions of this code. (Ord. 2011-O-20, 10-11-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 575.
2 2. 775 ILCS 5.
1-15-4: PROGRAM(S):
It shall be the duty of the village administrator, or his designee, to develop
and maintain program(s) to achieve the village policies established in section
1-15-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-O-20, 10-11-2011)
1-15-5: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to a religious corporation, association,
educational institution or society whose primary purpose and function is
religious with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular
religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation,
association, educational institution, or society of its activities. (Ord. 2011-
O-20, 10-11-2011)
CHAPTER 16
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-16-1: Definitions
1-16-2: Aggregation Of Electrical Load
1-16-3: Opt Out Program
1-16-4: Adoption Of Plan Of Operation And Governance For The Electricity
Aggregation Program
1-16-5: Solicitation Of Bids
1-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ACT: The Illinois power agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3855/1-92, as
may be amended from time to time.
CUSTOMER: Recipients of residential and small commercial retail electric loads
as provided in the act.
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM: A program pursuant to the act for the
aggregation of residential and small commercial retail electric loads located
within the corporate limits of the village that provides customers with the
opportunity to opt out of participating in that program as provided in the act.
(Ord. 2012-O-14, 11-15-2012)
1-16-2: AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village are authorized to operate an
electricity aggregation program pursuant to the act and for that purpose may
solicit bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate the sale and
purchase of electricity and related services and equipment for those loads
aggregated pursuant to the electricity aggregation program as provided in the
act.
   B.   The corporate authorities of the village may exercise the authority to
operate the electricity aggregation program jointly with any other municipality
or county and, in combination with two (2) or more municipalities or counties,
may initiate a process to jointly authorize the electricity aggregation program
by a majority vote of each particular municipality or county as required by the
act. (Ord. 2012-O-14, 11-15-2012)
1-16-3: OPT OUT PROGRAM:
   A.   The electricity aggregation program shall operate as an opt out program
whereby customers who do not wish to participate in the electricity aggregation
program may opt out pursuant to the act.
   B.   The village president, or his designee, on behalf of the village, shall
fully inform residential customers and small commercial retail customers of the
village in advance, as provided in the act, that customers have the right to
opt out of the village electricity aggregation program. The disclosure provided
to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the act and shall
prominently state all charges for electricity service to be made and shall
include full disclosure of the cost to obtain service pursuant to section 16-
103 of the public utilities act 1 , how to access service, and the fact that
service under section 16-103 of the public utilities act is available to
customers without penalty if they are currently receiving service under section
16-103 of the public utilities act.
   C.   Upon notification from any customer that the customer wishes to opt out
of the electricity aggregation program, that customer shall be excluded from
the electricity aggregation program.
   D.   Except for those customers who opt out of the electricity aggregation
program pursuant to this section and the act, the electricity aggregation
program shall automatically apply for each person owning, occupying,
controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to be aggregated in
the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 2012-O-14, 11-15-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
1-16-4: ADOPTION OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE FOR THE ELECTRICITY
AGGREGATION PROGRAM:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village, with the assistance from the
Illinois power agency as required pursuant to the act, shall develop and
approve a plan of operation and governance for the electricity aggregation
program.
   B.   Before adopting the plan of operation and governance required under
this section and the act, the corporate authorities shall hold at least two (2)
public hearings on the proposed plan. Before the first public hearing, the
corporate authorities shall publish notice of the hearings once a week for two
(2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. The
notice shall summarize the plan of operation and governance and state the date,
time, and location of each hearing.
   C.   The plan of operation and governance for the village's electricity
aggregation program shall:
      1.   Provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers
and equitable treatment of applicable residential customers,
      2.   Describe demand management and energy efficiency services to be
provided to each class of customers, and
      3.   Meet any requirements established by law concerning aggregated
service offered pursuant to the act. (Ord. 2012-O-14, 11-15-2012)
1-16-5: SOLICITATION OF BIDS:
The process for soliciting bids for electricity and other related services and
awarding proposed agreements for the purchase of electricity and other related
services for the electricity aggregation program shall be conducted pursuant to
the act. (Ord. 2012-O-14, 11-15-2012)
CHAPTER 17
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-17-1: Establishment Of Administrative Adjudication System And Code Hearing
Department
1-17-2: Purpose
1-17-3: Jurisdiction
1-17-4: Administrative Hearings Supervisor
1-17-5: Appointment Of Hearing Officer
1-17-6: Fines And Penalties
1-17-7: Remedial Hearing Date May Be Required
1-17-8:    Remote Or Virtual Hearings
1-17-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM AND CODE HEARING
DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to the home rule authority of the Village 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1, et seq.,
of the Illinois Municipal Code, and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, there is hereby established a "Code Hearing
Department" as an administrative adjudication system for the Village of Lake
Barrington ("the Village") (hereinafter, "the Code Hearing Department").
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, the Village's Code Hearing
Department and administrative adjudication system as established herein may be
one which is within a currently existing agency, such as by utilizing the
system of administrative adjudication and Code Hearing Department of another
municipality. The Village's administrative adjudication system will authorize a
Hearing Officer to conduct adjudicatory hearings of cases initiated by Village
departments. For purposes of this and related sections of this Code, the terms
herein shall have the same meaning as ascribed by the Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   The Village adopts the foregoing sections of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes as they may be amended from time to time. In the event of a conflict
between said statutes and this chapter, this chapter shall prevail pursuant to
the home rule authority of the Village.
   C.   The adoption of this chapter does not preclude the Village from using
other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2018-O-10,
6-6-2018)
1-17-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the administrative adjudication system of charges of Code
violations is to provide a procedure by which charges of Code violations can be
equitably and efficiently adjudicated administratively by an Administrative
Hearing Officer. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
1-17-3: JURISDICTION:
Those matters subject to the administrative adjudication system provided for by
this chapter are charges of violation of any regulation of the Village, so long
as the relief sought is not a penalty of incarceration or a total fine in
excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), excluding allowable costs. The
fifty thousand dollar ($50,000.00) limitation shall not apply to those cases
brought to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the
Village. In addition, the administrative adjudication system shall have
jurisdiction to adjudicate matters arising out of any provisions of this Code
or other Municipal ordinance, except any offense that is a traffic regulation
governing the movement of vehicles and except for any offense or similar local
ordinance which is a reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
1-17-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS SUPERVISOR:
There is hereby established the Department of Administrative Hearings. That
department shall be directed by an Administrative Hearings Supervisor, who
shall be the Village Administrator, or his designee. The Administrative
Hearings Supervisor's function is to expedite the prosecution and/or correction
of Code violations subject to the jurisdiction of the administrative
adjudication system. The Administrative Hearings Supervisor is authorized to
manage the administrative adjudication process in the manner provided for in
this chapter, which shall include determining the qualifications of
Administrative Hearing Officers, appointing Administrative Hearing Officers,
and establishing such rules and regulations, as may be necessary for the
effective operation of the administrative adjudication system. The Village
Administrator may also appoint other persons to assist with the administrative
adjudication system provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
1-17-5: APPOINTMENT OF HEARING OFFICER:
The Village Administrator shall appoint a qualified attorney as the Village
Administrative Hearing Officer ("the Hearing Officer"), in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., of the Illinois Municipal Code.
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, an Administrative Hearing Officer
appointed by another municipality may also be appointed by the Village
President as the Hearing Officer for the Village. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
1-17-6: FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The fines and penalties applicable to notices of violations issued
through the Code Hearing Department/administrative adjudication system and
matters heard by the Hearing Officer shall be as set forth in sections
1-4-1 and
1-10-7 of this title. Unless waived by the Hearing Officer, at his or her sole
discretion for good cause shown, costs as determined by the Hearing Officer at
his or her sole discretion, and/or a late charge as may be established by the
Village Board from time to time, shall be added to any fine(s) and/or other
applicable charge(s) imposed by the Hearing Officer which are not paid within
forty five (45) days after a copy of the Hearing Officer's order, decision and
a notice of liability has been served in person or by regular U.S. mail on the
defendant, but such late payment charge shall not be applicable in the event
that: 1) the defendant files a timely complaint for administrative review in
the Circuit Court, or 2) if the notice of liability against the defendant is
vacated by the Hearing Officer or the Circuit Court.
   B.   As part of the disposition of any notice of violation, the Hearing
Officer shall be authorized to enter an order of supervision and, in addition
to other applicable penalties and charges, may order the defendant to perform
community service and/or to participate in remedial classes or counseling.
(Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
   C.   Except with respect to the applicable minimum fines specified for Code
violation(s) for certain parking and compliance violation(s) as specified in
section
1-10-7 of this title, the Hearing Officer shall have the authority to suspend
the minimum fines otherwise applicable to any violation of this Code or of any
other Village ordinance. (Ord. 2018-O-10, 6-6-2018)
1-17-7: REMEDIAL HEARING DATE MAY BE REQUIRED:
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary by which the
prehearing settlement of a citation or notice to appear or a notice of
violation ("initial charging document") is authorized, any enforcement officer
or agent of the Village may provide on the initial charging document that the
appearance of the defendant at an administrative hearing or in court shall be
required if such enforcement officer or agent of the Village reasonably
believes, based upon one or more prior offenses of the same or similar nature
or other circumstances, that the defendant's appearance is necessary and should
be required to assure that the defendant thereafter takes appropriate remedial
measures to comply with the applicable provisions of this Code or of any other
applicable ordinance(s) of the Village. (Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
1-17-8: REMOTE OR VIRTUAL HEARINGS:
   A.   Attendance: At the direction of the Village President, or at the
discretion of the Village of Lake Barrington Hearing Officer, in-person
attendance at any Village of Lake Barrington Administrative Adjudication
hearing by any respondent(s) and/or defendant(s), by any Village officer(s),
employee(s), and/or agent(s), by any witnesses, and/or by the Village Hearing
Officer shall not be required when and if such person(s) participate
electronically in such hearing, and the virtual or remote participation of all
parties shall be by use of a telephone conference call and/or by an audio/video
conferencing or meeting platform.
   B.   Testimony: Any testimony may be taken under oath by means of such a
conference call or by means of such an audio-video remote platform.
   C.   Oaths: Any oaths of those testifying may be administered virtually or
remotely to witnesses by the Hearing Officer, documents may be executed by any
parties to the Administrative Adjudication proceeding electronically by the
transmission of a fax or of a PDF of a signed document, which, when transmitted
to or from the Hearing Officer, shall be deemed original document(s) for all
purposes.
   D.   Evidence: Evidence may be presented at any hearing by PDF or by video.
A PDF copy of any documents proposed to be submitted as evidence at a virtual
or remote Administrative Adjudication hearing shall be emailed to the Hearing
Officer for the Village at an email address provided by the Village not less
than twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled and/or continued date and
time of such hearing, although the Hearing Officer, at his or her discretion,
may reduce this timing where the interests of justice, fairness, and/or equity
so require.
(Ord. 2020-O-16, 8-4-2020)
CHAPTER 18
VILLAGE WEBSITE AND SOCIAL MEDIA USE POLICY
SECTION:
1-18-1: Mission Statement
1-18-2: Purpose
1-18-3: General Policy
1-18-4: Comment Policy
1-18-5: Website Administration
1-18-6: Website Utilization Categories
1-18-7: Website Content And Content Restrictions
1-18-8: Access Policy
1-18-1: MISSION STATEMENT:
The Village website is www.lakebarrington.org. The goal of the Village website
of the Village of Lake Barrington, and the Village's use of social networking
sites such as Facebook and Twitter is to provide Village residents, local
businesses and the public with information about the Village of Lake Barrington
(hereinafter referred to as the "Village" or "Lake Barrington"), Lake County,
Illinois, other units of local government, the community and special programs
and events that serve to strengthen Lake Barrington's identity as "an oasis of
gracious living where business may grow and prosper". This chapter may be
referred to as the VILLAGE WEBSITE AND SOCIAL MEDIA USE POLICY. (Ord. 2017-O-
16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter and the policies established herein is to
provide guidelines for the operation, maintenance, and utilization of the
Village website as a form of "governmental speech", and to describe its purpose
and use by the Village, as well as to implement policies and regulations
relative to the establishment and use by the Village of Lake Barrington of
various social media sites on behalf of the Village:
      1.   Village Website: The Village website is a government website, and
the Village is not required to provide on its website links to other websites
that are not government-sponsored. The Village website is committed to
providing website links that assist Village residents, local businesses, and
the public to learn more about programs and services offered by the Village and
other related units of local government, and community offerings and events
sponsored by qualifying charitable, civic, or governmental organizations which
seek to strengthen and enhance certain aspects of the community in accordance
with the mission statement (hereinafter referred to as "qualifying
organizations").
      2.   Social Media Sites:
         a.   The Village has an overriding interest and expectation in
determining what is "spoken" on behalf of the Village on its official Village
social media sites. In that regard, the Village has also established this
policy in order to implement policies and regulations relative to the
establishment and use by the Village of Lake Barrington of various social media
sites on behalf of the Village, including but not limited to "Facebook" and
"Twitter", as a means of conveying information from the Village and/or about
the Village to Village residents and other interested members of the general
public utilizing expanding methods of communication.
         b.   For purposes of this policy, the term "social media" shall be
understood to be content created by individuals, using accessible, expandable,
and upgradable publishing technologies, through and on the internet. Examples
of current social media tools include Facebook, web blogs, Viddler, RSS,
YouTube, Twitter, FourSquare, Vine and Flickr. For purpose of this policy, the
term "comments" includes information, articles, pictures, videos or any other
form of communicative content posted on a Village social media site.
      3.   Objectives:
         a.   To serve as an on-going source of Village information in the form
of governmental speech for the residents and businesses of Lake Barrington and
to enhance community understanding of the services provided by the Village.
         b.   To increase public knowledge of the functions and
responsibilities of Village government, and of the respective functions of its
Village Board (the terms "Village Board" and "Corporate Authorities" shall mean
and refer to the President and Board of Trustees of the Village), its elected
and appointed officials, operating departments, and advisory boards,
commissions and committees.
         c.   To serve as an emergency information center, providing notice and
updated information on local emergency situations related to such matters as
weather, hazardous spills, water system status, crime, etc.
         d.   To strengthen community identity and involvement by announcing
and/or providing links to audio and/or video coverage of Village meetings,
local events and activities and highlighting local businesses and
organizations.
         e.   To supplement the ongoing communications between the Village and
its residents.
         f.   To provide information of general interest to Village residents,
resident businesses, and the general public relative to Village programs,
services, activities, initiatives or areas of responsibility.
         g.   To act as a resource to the public for useful information about
the community as well as directional information (maps, etc.), directories of
services provided, notices of all public meetings and programs, etc. (Ord.
2017-O-16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-3: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   The Village website, www.lakebarrington.org, shall remain the Village's
primary and predominant internet presence.
   B.   The Village's use of social media tools falls generally into the
following categories:
      1.   As a channel for disseminating time-sensitive information as quickly
as possible (example: emergency information);
      2.   As marketing/promotional channels which increase the Village's
ability to broadcast its messages to the widest possible audience.
   C.   The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, is responsible for
the establishment and maintenance of any official social media site on behalf
of the Village, the approval of which is and shall be subject to the prior
written approval of the Village Administrator, who is also sometimes referred
to herein as the "Village web coordinator". Wherever in this chapter a
reference is made to the duties and responsibilities and authority of the
Village web coordinator, the use of this term shall mean that the role and work
of such Village web coordinator shall be undertaken, in each instance, pursuant
to either general or specific consultation with the Village Board member in
charge of communication.
   D.   All social media sites established on behalf of the Village shall be
administered and the content of each such site approved in writing in advance
by the Village Administrator and/or his or her designee.
   E.   Each and all social media sites established on behalf of the Village
shall include a clear statement that such site is maintained by the Village and
that the user thereof agrees to accept and comply with the Village's policy as
established herein.
   F.   For the purpose of this chapter, the term "local community" shall mean
"contemporary community standards as viewed and perceived by a reasonable
person". (Ord. 2017-O-16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-4: COMMENT POLICY:
   A.   As a public entity the Village must comply with certain standards to
serve all of its constituents in a civil and unbiased manner.
   B.   The Village's website and social media sites shall be considered
limited public forums and, as such, the Village reserves the right to restrict
or remove any content thereon that is deemed in violation of this policy
established herein, the policies of any particular site used by the Village, or
any applicable law.
   C.   Comments containing any of the following shall be and are considered
inappropriate forms of content and shall not be permitted to be posted on the
Village website and/or social media sites and are subject to immediate removal
and/or restriction by the Village web coordinator or his or her designee based
upon local community standards:
      1.   Comments not related to the original topic posted on said site,
including random or unintelligible comments;
      2.   Profane, obscene, violent, or pornographic comments, content and/or
language;
      3.   Content that promotes, fosters or perpetuates discrimination on the
basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status with
regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental disability,
sexual orientation, or any other protected status;
      4.   Defamatory or personal attacks;
      5.   Threats to any person or organization;
      6.   Comments in support of, or in opposition to, any political campaigns
or ballot measures;
      7.   Solicitation of commerce, including but not limited to advertising
of any business or product for sale;
      8.   Conduct in violation of any Federal, State or local law;
      9.   Encouragement of illegal activity;
      10.   Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security of
the public or public systems; or
      11.   Content that violates a legal ownership interest, such as a
copyright, of any party;
      12.   Content or posts that contain external links to other sites for the
purpose of spam, viruses, link-baits, click-throughs, or other deceptive
practices.
   D.   The Village reserves the right to report any violation of applicable
laws to the appropriate law enforcement agencies and other authorities that
have applicable jurisdiction.
   E.   A comment posted by a member of the public on any Village social media
site is the opinion of the commentator or poster only, and publication of a
comment does not imply endorsement of, or agreement by, the Village, nor do
such comments necessarily reflect the opinions or policies of the Village, its
officers, Trustees, employees, agents, or appointees.
   F.   The Village reserves the right to deny access to Village social media
sites for any person or entity that violates this policy, at any time and
without prior notice.
   G.   Neither the Village of Lake Barrington nor its elected and appointed
officials, officers, employees, or agents endorse, recommend, or offer any
opinions on the goods or services provided by any businesses or organizations
posting on or linked to its Village website or to any Village social media site
(s), and this disclaimer shall be posted on the Village website and on each
Village social media site.
   H.   Employees representing the Village via social media outlets are and
shall be required to conduct themselves at all times as professional
representatives of the Village.
      1.   Employees of the Village are not permitted to use Village- branded
social media outlets to influence or affect the results of any election or
nomination.
      2.   When a Village employee responds to a comment, in his/her capacity
as a Village employee, the employee's name and title should be made available
as part of the comment or post, when possible.
      3.   Employees of the Village shall not share personal information about
himself or herself, or other Village employees, elected officials, appointed
board or commission members, or candidates for such positions.
      4.   Employees of the Village are and shall be prohibited from posting
any privileged or confidential information.
      5.   Employees of the Village are and shall be prohibited from posting
any information related to any commercial product, business, venture,
partnership or other entity in which such employee holds an interest, for the
purpose of selling or promoting such interest.
   I.   All comments posted to any Village social media site(s) are bound by
those particular site's rules, regulations, rights, and responsibilities, and
the Village reserves the right to report any violation of those rules,
regulations, rights and responsibilities to the social media site with the
intent of that site to take appropriate and reasonable responsive action. (Ord.
2017-O-16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-5: WEBSITE ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The Village website is owned, operated and regulated by the Village and
is an operating branch of the Village Administrator's Office. The Village
Administrator, or his or her designee, acting as the Village web coordinator,
shall work in consultation with the Village Board member in charge of
communication and shall be responsible for posting on the Village website
Village meeting dates and other Village-sponsored activities and program
schedules, which are established based on direction from the Corporate
Authorities of the Village and/or the Village Administrator and in accordance
with this chapter. It is the responsibility of the web coordinator to
coordinate and manage the Village website, exercising professional judgment in
administering policies set forth by the Corporate Authorities, and determining
what information and/or other website links shall be posted on the Village
website. No Village department, division, or official entity governed by the
Village may establish a website on the internet, for or on behalf of itself or
the Village, that is independent from the Village's primary website without the
express permission of the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, but
decisions on matters of policy and website posting, shall be consistent with
local community standards as determined by the Village web coordinator but may
be reviewed from time to time by the Corporate Authorities as said Corporate
Authorities determine to be necessary or appropriate generally and/or to the
specific circumstances.
   B.   The web coordinator is also responsible for reviewing requests from
Village officials, Village staff, other persons and other organizations to
utilize the Village website to provide information pertinent to the Village and
to the community as a whole. The web coordinator is responsible for determining
the appropriateness of the content of the Village website and all information
posted on and/or linked to the Village website, based on the policies and
procedures established herein or as amended from time to time by the Corporate
Authorities. If the request for posting information and/or a website link is
denied by the web coordinator, the applicant may appeal the denial to the
Village Board within ten (10) business days of the denial. Denial of a
submittal for posting to the Village website shall be in writing, shall be sent
to the applicant by regular mail, shall state the reason for the denial, and
may, if appropriate, offer recommendation(s) for modifying the content of the
submittal to qualify for posting on the Village website. The appeal of such
denial shall also be in writing and shall state the basis for the appeal, and
shall be submitted to the Village Administrator. The Village Administrator may
present said appeal to the Village Board who shall consider the appeal at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting, if the Village
President determines that this is required by the nature of the matter being
appealed. The party appealing may also appear before the Board to present its
appeal and the web coordinator or other applicable Village representatives may
be given the opportunity at that same time to respond to the appeal in person
or in writing.
   C.   The Village Administrator is directly responsible to the Corporate
Authorities of the Village for the efficient, effective, and responsive
operation of the Village website. As the elected officials of the Village, the
Corporate Authorities of the Village retain final authority for establishing
the overall policies and procedures related to the operation of the Village
website.
   D.   The Village website will provide information to Village residents and
businesses, visitors to the community, and the general public, concerning the
Village, and the functions, activities, programs and issues of the Village. The
Village website constitutes governmental speech and is not intended to be used
for the purposes of advertising and/or as a public forum by an individual,
business, or group, nor as a mechanism for building exclusive support for a
particular person, program or issue. Therefore, links to candidate forums, even
if such forum, or the link thereto, has been organized and/or is sponsored by
what may appear to be a non-partisan organization shall not be permitted on the
Village website. Use of the Village website shall be authorized by the web
coordinator and governed by the operating procedures as set forth herein. The
Village website shall not be used by any person or group that seeks to foster,
promote, or encourage disharmony based on race, ethnicity, or national origin
or to otherwise seek to exploit differences among residents of the Village or
among people in general.
   E.   The Village web coordinator reserves the right to review all website
links, to determine its compliance with the Village website regulations and
purpose, objectives, priorities, restrictions, and access in accordance with
the provisions of this policy. Any website link under consideration may be
accepted as presented, may be rejected, or may be given conditional approval by
the web coordinator. Conditional approval of a website link shall mean that
such website link may be posted on the Village website on the condition that
any and all inappropriate, objectionable or offensive portions of said website
link, based upon local community standards, are removed before posting. The
presenter of the proposed website link will then have the option of making all
specified changes or withdrawing the proposed website link from consideration.
(Ord. 2017-O-16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-6: WEBSITE UTILIZATION CATEGORIES:
Except as otherwise set forth above, the Village website may also be used for
the following governmental speech purposes, which are listed in order of
priority:
   A.   Emergencies: Emergency use may consist of written, live, or pre-
recorded informational postings and/or other applicable website links displayed
at such time(s) as are appropriate to the particular emergency. The purpose of
such postings will be to inform residents of emergency situations, and to
notify and instruct website visitors in evacuation, detour and/or escape
procedures. In the case of an emergency, other regular website utilization may
be preempted or canceled. The Village web coordinator, or his or her designee,
shall approve in writing all content and scheduling of any emergency
utilization pursuant to Village emergency plans, ordinances and policies.
   B.   Live Streamed Or Pre-Recorded Meetings Of The Corporate Authorities Of
The Village: Links to live streamed gavel-to-gavel coverage or re-broadcasts of
meetings of the Corporate Authorities of the Village will be available as often
as such meetings are scheduled, except in instances where the Village Board
adjourns to closed session(s) which closed session(s) shall not be available
for viewing, and no action by the Village Board after closed session other than
to officially adjourn the meeting is contemplated, in which case the meeting is
aired through the roll call on the motion to adjourn to closed session without
editing or editorial comment. Excerpts of a public meeting may be used by the
Village as part of a featured program or website link.
   C.   Live Streamed Or Pre-Recorded Meetings Of Village Advisory Boards,
Commissions And Committees: Live streamed or re-broadcast coverage of meetings
of Village advisory boards, commissions, and committees will periodically be
made available through the Village website based on location and staff and
equipment availability or upon request of the Corporate Authorities. Unless
covering only a specific presentation at a meeting, meetings are aired gavel-
to-gavel without editing or editorial comment. Excerpts of a public meeting may
be used by the Village as part of a featured program or website link.
   D.   Village Of Lake Barrington Communication(s): The content of Village
communication(s) posted on the Village website may include, among other things,
informative communication(s) produced or purchased by the Village which are
directly related to Village business or Village sponsored programs, services
and events.
   E.   Lake Barrington Taxing Bodies And Quasi-Governmental Entities
Communications: The content of communication(s) by Lake Barrington taxing
bodies and quasi-governmental entities posted on the Village website may
include, among other things, informative communication(s) by the Village and/or
by governmental bodies that have the authority to levy Property Tax on property
within the corporate limits of the Village, and/or to provide service within
the territory of the Village, and quasi- governmental entities of which the
Village is a member. Such communications will be directly related to Village
business or a local taxing body or quasi-governmental sponsored programs and
services.
   F.   County, Regional, State And Federal Governmental Content: The content
of communication(s) by County, regional, State and the Federal government
posted on the Village website may include, among other things, informative
communication(s) produced or purchased by said governments. Such communications
will be directly related to Village issues or governmentally sponsored programs
and services.
   G.   Community Programs And Events: Such content should be limited to
communication(s) and material sponsored by qualifying community organizations.
The content shall serve to strengthen community identity and brand of Lake
Barrington as "an oasis of gracious countryside living where businesses may
grow and prosper" and must have community-wide appeal and participation. The
content must be consistent with Village website purpose, objectives, access,
and content regulations and is subject to approval by the web coordinator.
   H.   Village Employment Opportunities Announcements: As approved by and at
the sole discretion of the web coordinator, or his or her designee, the Village
may post on its website contact information related to open positions for
employment by the Village.
   I.   Qualifying Community Organizations: For the purpose of this chapter a
qualifying community organization shall be a not-for- profit or governmental
organization located within and/or serving territory, residents, and/or
businesses within the corporate limits of the Village or within the area
covered by the Barrington Area Council of Governments (BACOG) which seek to
strengthen and enhance certain aspects of the community in accordance with the
mission statement. Only that content submitted by a qualifying community
organization that is consistent with the Village website purpose, objectives,
access and content regulations set forth in this chapter and is approved in
advance by the web coordinator will be posted on the Village website. (Ord.
2017-O-16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-7: WEBSITE CONTENT AND CONTENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The Village website shall contain, among other things, Village contact
and other information such as the address of the Village Hall, the names of the
Village's elected and appointed officials, including the Village's Freedom of
Information Act ("FOIA") Officer, Village departments, and an organization
chart.
   B.   The posting on the Village website of any content which is
inappropriate, as determined by the Village web coordinator or his or her
designee applying local community standards, is and shall be prohibited.
Inappropriate content shall include, but not be limited to, that which directly
or indirectly endorses any person or organization not directly associated with
the Village, commentary or personal opinions, photographs, music, video or
graphics not having the written permission of the copyright holder or proof of
being royalty-free.
   C.   The Village also prohibits the following website content, based upon
prevailing local community standards as determined by the web coordinator, or
his or her designee, and any communication or website link containing any of
the following will not be permitted:
      1.   Promotions, endorsements, or advertisements for any private business
(except as provided for in subsection 1-18-5I of this chapter), commercial
service or product or any paid advertising materials in which commercial
appeals for funds are made. Acknowledgment of grants or donations for
programming purposes shall not be considered as advertising. Paid advertising
material includes, but is not limited to, advertising by or on behalf of a
candidate for public office and program material made available with or without
charge by persons, corporations, or institutions which have a commercial
interest in the subject matter. This provision shall not prevent the
identification of persons or institutions providing grants or contributions to
underwrite the cost of programs unrelated to the commercial interest of the
donor or to programs which have a public interest overriding the private
commercial interest.
      2.   Materials or content intended to be used as a political forum by an
individual or group or as a mechanism for building exclusive support for a
particular person, program or issue. This section shall also prohibit links to
candidate forums, even if such forum or the link thereto appears to have been
organized and/or is sponsored by what may appear to be a non-partisan
organization.
      3.   Lottery or raffle information.
      4.   Religious programming with the exception of holiday music.
      5.   Any material or language which constitutes libel, slander,
pornography, obscenity or violence, as determined by local community standards.
      6.   Trademarks or copyrighted material, unless written permission for
use has been obtained in advance and a copy of which is provided to the web
coordinator.
      7.   Programming which is prohibited by applicable Federal, State or
local laws.
   D.   In the case of content deemed to be consistent with the Village website
purpose, objectives, access, and content regulations but also containing some
content or language that some persons may consider offensive, based upon local
community standards, the following message may be posted prior to the website
access to such content:
"The following material has been deemed worthy of communication through a link
posted on the Village Website, but contains language or other content that may
be offensive to some viewers. Viewer discretion and parental guidance are
advised."
(Ord. 2017-O-16, 9-5-2017)
1-18-8: ACCESS POLICY:
   A.   Access to the Village website may range from submitting a public
service announcement, requesting coverage of and/or posting of information
relative to a specific event, to working side-by-side with the Village web
coordinator, or his or her designee, to produce contents for the website. In
each case, the following procedures must be followed before access will be
provided:
      1.   All requests for posting(s) on the Village website must be submitted
in writing to the web coordinator on a Village of Lake Barrington Request for
Website Content Form which form may be obtained from the Office of the Village
Clerk, and must include the name of the organization for which the request is
being made along with the name, address, phone number, and email address of the
contact person and the organization's website address and should be submitted
at least ten (10) working days prior to the requested start date.
      2.   Content should be concise, and should contain basic information
concerning what, when, where, how, and how much. If necessary, the Village web
coordinator, or his or her designee, will edit the content to meet space
requirements, to improve readability of the content, and to insure that the
content is grammatically correct.
      3.   All submissions received will be reviewed by the web coordinator, or
his or her designee, and then posted to, linked to or denied posting on the
Village website, only at the discretion of the web coordinator. The web
coordinator is responsible for determining the appropriateness of the proposed
content. The web coordinator will use the website purpose, objectives,
regulations, and further limitations outlined in this chapter or otherwise by
the Corporate Authorities in making this determination. The determinations of
the web coordinator may be appealed as provided herein.
      4.   If the web coordinator determines that the proposed content must be
denied and/or is unsuitable for posting on the Village website, the material in
question will be returned to the applicant along with a written statement from
the web coordinator stating the reason for the denial and advising the
applicant that he, she, or it may appeal the denial to the Village Board in
writing within ten (10) business days of the denial. When appropriate, the web
coordinator's written statement may also offer recommendation(s) for modifying
the material in order to qualify for posting on the Village website.
      5.   The Village web coordinator, and/or his or her designee, will
endeavor to give timely consideration to all submissions of proposed content,
subject to priority, budgetary and staff-time constraints. (Ord. 2017-O-16, 9-
5-2017)
CHAPTER 19
POLICY FOR DONATIONS BY THE VILLAGE
SECTION:
1-19-1: Purpose
1-19-2: Public Announcements
1-19-3: Village Administrator Authority
1-19-4: Village President Authority
1-19-5: Village Board Authority
1-19-6: Maximum Amount Of Annual Village Donations
1-19-1: PURPOSE:
The primary purpose of donations made by the Village of Lake Barrington is for
the benefit and welfare of residents of Lake Barrington. This policy: a)
establishes procedures for requesting donations, and b) limits donation amounts
and identifies the respective authorities for approval thereof. (Ord. 2017-O-
11, 5-2-2017)
1-19-2: PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS:
The Village Administrator will from time to time publish announcements
communicating to Village residents that donation requests should be submitted
to the Village in the months of February and March of each year so as to allow
review and consideration by the Village Board of such request(s) and the
possible approval of and budgeting for any such requests. The Village
Administrator will collect the requests and submit them to the President and
Board of Trustees for the Village Board's consideration and possible approval.
(Ord. 2017-O-11, 5-2-2017)
1-19-3: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORITY:
The Village Administrator may authorize donations in amounts less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) such as flowers for funerals, etc., up to a maximum
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per fiscal year. (Ord. 2017-O-11, 5-2-2017)
1-19-4: VILLAGE PRESIDENT AUTHORITY:
The Village President is authorized to approve donation requests up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) without approval by the Board of Trustees up to a
maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) in any fiscal year.
Once that two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500.00) amount is exceeded in
any fiscal year the Board of Trustees must approve any additional requests for
such fiscal year. (Ord. 2017-O-11, 5-2-2017)
1-19-5: VILLAGE BOARD AUTHORITY:
Approval by the Board of Trustees is required for all requests for a donation
by the Village above one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 2017-O-11, 5-2-
2017)
1-19-6: MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ANNUAL VILLAGE DONATIONS:
The maximum amount of donations approved by the Village shall not exceed in the
aggregate twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) in any fiscal year. (Ord. 2017-
O-11, 5-2-2017)
CHAPTER 20
FLAG DISPLAY POLICY
SECTION:
1-20-1: Village Flag Display Policy
1-20-1: VILLAGE FLAG DISPLAY POLICY:
The following flags are the only flags authorized to be flown or otherwise
displayed on or over Village-owned, -leased, or otherwise -controlled buildings
and property:
   A.   The official flag of the United States of America;
   B.   The official flag of the State of Illinois;
   C.   The official flag of the Village of Lake Barrington; and
   D.   The official National League of Families POW/MIA flag. (Ord. 2022-O-07,
7-11-2022)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
HOME RULE SALES TAXES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
2-1-2: Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
2-1-3: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
2-1-4: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
2-1-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority provided to the Village as set forth in 65
ILCS 5/8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, a Home Rule Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled or registered with an agency of the State of Illinois, at
retail in the Village of Lake Barrington (the "Village") at the rate of one-
half of one percent (½ %) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business in accordance with the provisions of the Home Rule
Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act authorized by Illinois Compiled States.
Such Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax shall not be applicable on
the sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the
premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food
which has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power
and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this Section. (Ord.
2019-O-10, 11-12-2019)
2-1-2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Pursuant to the authority provided to the Village as set forth in 65
ILCS 5/8-11-5, a Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in the Village of Lake Barrington in the business of
making sales of service at the rate of one-half of one percent (½%) of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident to a sale of service. Such "Home Rule Municipal Service
Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable on the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power
and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this Section. (Ord.
2019-O-10, 11-12-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-O-06, 3-3-2020)
2-1-3: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in this Village at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-7 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 .
   B.   Reports Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
Village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
to the State Department of Revenue required by sections two and three of "An
Act in Relation to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling
Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June
29, 1933, as amended 2 .
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 82-O-05, 5-3-
1982)
 
Notes
1 3. S.H.A. 65 ILCS.
2 4. S.H.A. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-1-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this Village an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this State's government in this
Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 .
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided for in this Section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in this Village.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this Section shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue. (Ord. 82-O-06, 5-3-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Authority
2-2-2: Purpose
2-2-3: License Required Annually For All Businesses And Occupations, Other Than
Home Occupations; Disclosure Of Tenants
2-2-4: Business Records
2-2-5: Forms, Applications
2-2-6: Fees
2-2-7: Investigations
2-2-8: Buildings And Premises
2-2-9: Signatures
2-2-10: Posting License
2-2-11: Fiscal Year; Term
2-2-12: Changes In Location
2-2-13: Nuisances
2-2-14: Inspections
2-2-15: Suspension; Revocation
2-2-16: Recovery Of Fees
2-2-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter and the provisions hereof are hereby adopted pursuant to the
authority of the Village as a home rule unit. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994)
2-2-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the Village and to establish standards for the control and regulation of all
businesses or occupations, other than home occupations, and related activities
in the Village. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED ANNUALLY FOR ALL BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS, OTHER THAN
HOME OCCUPATIONS; DISCLOSURE OF TENANTS:
   A.   License Required Annually: Any person maintaining, operating, or
conducting any business, occupation or establishment, or doing business or
engaging in any activity or occupation or related activity generating any
revenue in any license year at any location within the B (Business), O (Office
and Research), and/or M (Manufacturing and Industrial) Zoning Districts within
the Village shall be subject to the licensing requirement of this chapter if by
himself, herself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he, she
or it holds himself, herself or itself forth as being engaged in a business or
occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs
or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in the Village
and all such persons shall obtain from the Village the required business
license as herein provided for, and pay to the Village the required annual non-
refundable business license fee, provided however, no business license shall be
required for: 1) a "church" as defined in section
8-2-2, "Definitions", of title 8 of this Village Code or a not-for-profit
corporation which has tax-exempt status, or 2) a lawful "home occupation" as
defined in section
8-2-2, "Definitions", of title 8 of this Village Code which is conducted in
compliance with this chapter and with section
8-3-5 of this Code.
   B.   Disclosure Of Tenants: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
chapter to the contrary, the license required for all businesses and/or
occupations, other than home occupations, pursuant to subsection A of this
section shall not be applicable to the activity of leasing as a lessor of
premises for use by others, when such premises are properly zoned for such use,
pursuant to the applicable provisions of title 8 of this Village Code, but each
person, partnership, corporation, association or land trust or beneficiary of a
land trust which has, as a lessor, leased any premises within the Village for
any purpose other than residential or agricultural uses shall annually and not
later than June 1 of each year submit a sworn list of all tenants who were
using or occupying such leased premises for any purposes other than residential
or agricultural uses, on the preceding May 1 or during any time during the
twelve (12) calendar months preceding said May 1 date. The beneficiaries of any
land trust which fail to comply with the requirements of this subsection shall
also be culpable for such violations and jointly and severally liable for any
fines or other penalties imposed pursuant to this chapter. Such disclosure of
tenants shall be on a form obtained from the Village Clerk and shall include
the name, address, telephone number and an accurate description of the business
or activity of each tenant. (Ord. 2006-O-24, 7-10-2006; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15,
12-6-2022)
2-2-4: BUSINESS RECORDS:
The Village Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
business licenses issued by the Village for all businesses and/or occupations
conducted within the Village, other than home occupations, and shall furnish
the Village Treasurer with copies of each such license on not less than an
annual basis. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-5: FORMS, APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Forms: Application forms for all business licenses shall be prepared
and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
   B.   Applications:
      1.   Not later than May 1 of each fiscal year, applications for all
business licenses as required by this chapter shall be submitted in writing to
the Village Clerk on the respective form provided by the Village Clerk for that
purpose.
      2.   Each application for a business license shall state, at a minimum,
the name of the applicant, the email address of the primary contact for the
business, the federal and state tax identification numbers for the subject
business, as the use may be, the nature of the business or occupation, the
address and permanent index number of the location within the Village where
such business or occupation is or will be conducted, the time covered by the
requested license and the fee to be paid.
      3.   Each applicant for a business license may also be required to
provide to the Village such additional information as may be needed for the
proper guidance of the Village officials in issuing the requested business
license for the respective business or occupation which is being or will be
operated consistent with the applicable provisions of title 8 of this Village
Code. (Ord. 2001-O-18, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-6: FEES:
In the absence of any provision of this Village Code to the contrary, all fees
and charges for licenses required pursuant to this chapter shall be paid at the
time application therefor is submitted to the Village Clerk. When an applicant
has not engaged in the business until after the expiration of part of the
current license year, the fee for same shall be prorated by quarters and the
fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof except as otherwise provided by
this chapter during which the business or occupation has been or will be
conducted. Except as otherwise provided in this Village Code, all license fees
shall be deposited in the General Corporate Fund of the Village. The annual
business license fee shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Village Code for each fiscal year; provided, however, that in
the event an applicant for a business license fails to obtain a business
license or fails to pay the required license fee for same before May 1 of each
license year, or on or before sixty (60) days after establishing a new business
or occupation within the Village, other than a home occupation, requiring a
license within the Village, based upon the submission of reasonable evidence
thereof to the Village Clerk, the applicant shall pay, in addition to said
license fee, a late charge equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the license
fee, as established by section
1-10-7 of this Village Code, at the time of obtaining said license, which late
charge is necessary to cover the additional administrative costs of such late
application. No license shall be issued or renewed under this Chapter unless
the applicant is able to establish by written evidence acceptable to the
Village Clerk that all past due license fees and penalties due and owing to the
Village applicable to the applicant have been paid. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-7: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a business license hereunder, the
Village may cause an inspection of the premises where such business or
occupation is or will be operated or investigation of the applicant for such
business license before the issuance of such business license. The Village
Clerk shall initially refer such application to such officer, agent or employee
of the Village as designated by the Village President for making such
investigation and/or inspection within ten (10) days of receipt of such
application by the Village Clerk. The officer, agent or employee designated to
make the investigation and/or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable
or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof and provide such report to both the Village Clerk and the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-8: BUILDINGS AND PREMISES:
   A.   No business license shall be issued or renewed hereunder for the
conduct of any business, occupation, establishment, or related activity within
any B (Business), O (Office and Research), or M (Manufacturing and Industrial)
Zoning District of the Village, and no other license or any other permit shall
be issued for any thing or act, if the premises and/or building to be used for
the purpose in which such business or occupation is or will be conducted does
not fully comply with the requirements of this Chapter and all other applicable
provisions of this Village Code. No business license shall be issued except for
the premises specified in the application for such business license, and any
such business license shall be issued only for and shall be applicable only to
the premises specified in the respective application form, and no other(s).
   B.   An existing business licensee desiring to relocate the subject
business, occupation, establishment, or related activity to a new location in
the Village shall provide to the Village Clerk thirty (30) days prior written
notice of any such relocation and shall reapply for an amended business license
for the proposed new location, and the original business license shall be null
and void.
   C.   No home occupation shall be permitted by the Village which is or would
be in violation of any provisions of title 8 of this Village Code or be in
violation of any other applicable provision of this Village Code. (Ord. 2001-O-
18, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-9: SIGNATURES:
All business licenses issued, except those license(s) evidenced by a sticker or
decal, shall bear the signatures of the Village President, or his or her
designee, and the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2001-O-18, 6-5-2001; amd. Ord. 2022-O-
15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person or entity establishing, conducting,
maintaining, and/or operating any licensed business, establishment, or
occupation (other than a home occupation) in the Village to keep his, her, or
its business license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises
where such business, establishment, or occupation is located and operated (the
"Licensed Premises"). (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2022-O-15,
12-6-2022)
2-2-11: FISCAL YEAR; TERM:
The license year for any business license issued by the Village shall begin on
May 1 and end on the following April 30, unless otherwise specifically provided
by the business license as approved by the Village. The Village Clerk shall e-
mail all holders of a business license, at the email address of the primary
contact for the business as provided on the application received by the
Village, a notice to renew the respective business license reflecting the date
of the expiration of the current business license held by the licensee
approximately three (3) weeks prior to the date of such expiration; provided,
however, that a failure to send out such notice, or the failure of a business
licensee to receive such notice shall not excuse the licensee from obtaining a
new business license, or a renewal thereof in a timely manner, nor shall any
failure to receive such notice be a defense in an action for operating a
business within the Village without a license. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd.
Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-12: CHANGES IN LOCATION:
The location of any business or occupation licensed or required to be licensed
pursuant to this chapter may only be changed if the proposed new location is in
compliance with all applicable provisions of this Village Code and further
provided that thirty (30) days' prior written notice of any such relocation is
given to the Village Clerk. The holder of an existing business license shall be
required to apply for and obtain a new business license reflecting the new
address of said business pursuant to this chapter and provided that the new
proposed location shall be in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
Village Code prior to the commencement of any activity and/or operation of any
business at the new proposed location. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-
O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-13: NUISANCES:
No business establishment or occupation shall be so conducted or operated as to
be determined by the Village Administrator, or her designee, to be a public
nuisance. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-3-1994; amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-14: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   General Inspections: Inspections by an authorized representative of the
Village shall be conducted of the premises to be used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation, other than a home
occupation, prior to the issuance of such license pursuant to this chapter
which inspection(s) are reasonably necessary to evidence or secure compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter and of this Village Code and to
identify any violations thereof, and it shall be the duty of the business
licensee, or the duty of the owner of the premises and/or the person in charge
of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of making the
inspection, any officer, employee or agent of the Village who is authorized or
directed by the Village to perform such inspection(s) at any reasonable time
that admission is requested.
   B.   Analysis: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material used by, or
used in conjunction with, or offered for sale by a business licensee is
determined by the Village to be reasonably necessary to secure conformance with
any Village ordinance provision or to identify any violations thereof, it shall
be the duty of the holder of such business license to give sufficient samples
of each such material or commodity to any authorized officer, employee, or
agent of the Village requesting same for analysis thereof.
   C.   Failure To Comply: In addition to any other penalty which may be
provided for in this Village Code, the Village President may revoke or decline
to renew, or may suspend, the license of any business or occupation in the
Village, licensed to operate pursuant to this chapter or pursuant to this
Village Code, who or which refuses to permit any such authorized representative
of the Village to perform such inspection or obtain samples of material(s) and/
or commodity(ies) to complete the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the
said material and/or commodity in order to perform or cause to be performed an
analysis thereon, or who or which interferes with such authorized
representative of the Village while in the performance of his or her duty in
making such inspection; provided, however, that no business license shall be
suspended or revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the
business licensee or the person in charge of the premises, in the name of the
Village, stating that such inspection or sample is requested. (Ord. 94-O-08, 5-
3-1994; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-15: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   A.   Violation: Any business license may be suspended or revoked by the
Village President at any time during the term of such business license for any
violation by the business licensee of the provisions of this chapter or any
applicable Village ordinance relating to the business license, relating to the
subject matter of the business license or relating to the premises upon which
said business is operated and such suspension or revocation may be in addition
to any fine imposed.
   B.   Notice; Hearing; Cause For Suspension: Any business license issued
pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the Village President,
after notice to the licensee and prior opportunity to be heard, during the
period of such license for the violation by the licensee of any provision of
this Village Code or of state statutes or regulations relating to the
respective license, the subject of the license, or the premises upon which such
business or occupation is conducted; such suspension or revocation may be in
addition to any fine imposed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Village
President is also hereby authorized to summarily order the cessation of any
business located within the Village, the closing of the premises upon which any
business is conducted, and the suspension of any business license for a period
not to exceed fifteen (15) days without any notice or prior opportunity to be
heard, where such cessation is immediately required to protect the public
health, safety and/or welfare of the community.
      1.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after a written notice has been sent
to the holder of any business license, or after the Village President has so
acted summarily to protect the public health and safety, the Village President,
or his or her designee, shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining
whether or not the respective business license should be suspended or revoked.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for suspension or revocation of
a business license shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the
grounds of the complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall
be sent to the respective business licensee at his or her last known address at
least five (5) days prior to the date for the hearing.
      3.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the holder of the business
license shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence
and cross examine witnesses. The Village President, or the Village
Administrator, or his or her designee, shall preside and shall render the
decision and recommendation.
      4.   Causes For Suspension Or Revocation: Business licenses issued under
the ordinances of the Village, unless otherwise provided, may be suspended or
revoked by the Village President, or his or her designee, after notice and an
opportunity for a hearing as provided in this section for any of the following
causes:
         a.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the business license.
         b.   Any violation by the licensee of the ordinances of the Village or
State law relating to the subject business or occupation or the business
license thereof, the subject matter of the business or occupation or the
business license thereof, or the premises upon which the business or occupation
is conducted.
         c.   Conviction of the business licensee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
         d.   Failure of the business licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing
to the Village.
         e.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference
with a duly authorized representative of the Village while performing any such
inspections as provided in this Village Code.
   C.   Appeal Procedure: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the Village
President, or his or her designee, to issue a business license or by the
suspension or revocation of a business license, shall have the right to appeal
the decision of the Village President, or his or her designee, to the Board of
Trustees. Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the
Village Clerk within five (5) days of the action of the Village President which
is appealed, which request shall state the reasons for such appeal.
The Board of Trustees shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled
meeting which is at least four (4) days after the filing of such an appeal, at
which time the applicant shall be entitled to present his or her appeal orally
or in writing. The Board of Trustees shall act on the appeal at the hearing or
within a reasonable time thereafter and shall either uphold the action of the
Village President, or his or her designee, or shall direct the issuance of a
business license which the Village President, or his or her designee, had
denied or the reissuance of the subject business license which the Village
President has suspended or revoked. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-
O-15, 12-6-2022)
2-2-16: RECOVERY OF FEES:
Whenever any business license hereunder has been revoked or suspended pursuant
to this chapter, the business licensee shall not be refunded any monies that
have been paid for said business license. All fees for applications for any
business license are nonrefundable. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-
O-15, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL AND TOBACCO REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
2-3-4: License Required; Proration Of Certain License Fees
2-3-5: Application For License
2-3-6: Classification Of Licenses
2-3-7: Disposition Of Fees
2-3-8: Persons Not Eligible For License
2-3-9: Certificate Or Approved Inspections Required
2-3-10: Fingerprinting And Financial Statements
2-3-11: Separate License For Each Premises; Transfer To Other Premises
2-3-12: Duration Of License; Renewal Fee
2-3-13: List Of Licenses
2-3-14: Display Of License
2-3-15: Duplicate License
2-3-16: Transfer Of License
2-3-17: Change In Personnel
2-3-18: Renewal Of License
2-3-19: Health Requirements
2-3-20: Location Restrictions
2-3-21: General Alcohol Regulation
2-3-22: Happy Hour Restrictions
2-3-23: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
2-3-24: Reserved
2-3-25: Violation Of Retailer Occupation Tax Act
2-3-26: Complaint For Violation
2-3-27: Notice, Hearing And Order
2-3-28: Recovery Of Fees
2-3-29: Tobacco Products And Alternative Nicotine Products
2-3-30: Penalties
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the people of the Village and to provide standards for the sound and careful
control and regulation of the sale and distribution of alcoholic liquor. (Ord.
93-O-11, 4-22-1993)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise defined in this section, words and phrases used in
this chapter shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the
Illinois Liquor Control Act 1 . Any reference to "Liquor Control Act" or 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11, et seq., "chapter 235", "chapter 235 of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes", "Dram Shop Act", "dramshops" or any other similar
reference as used herein shall mean and refer to the Illinois Liquor Control
Act 2 , as amended from time to time.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "possess" or "possession"
shall mean: To be within the physical control of a person or within the area of
a person's reasonably expected physical control (i.e., in their constructive
possession), but for the purpose of this chapter, "possession" shall not
include the act of lawfully serving of alcoholic liquor to one or more
customers at tables on the licensed premises by an employee of a licensee of a
Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, Class F, Class G, Class I, Class K and/or
Class L license issued pursuant to this chapter in the course of their
employment if such employee meets the age and supervision requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   "Bring Your Own Bottle" or "BYOB" shall mean consumption of alcoholic
liquor that was not purchased on the licensed premises.
   D.    "Commission" or "State Commission" shall mean the Illinois Liquor
Control Commission, that executive agency of the State of Illinois which
enforces the Illinois Liquor Control Act 3 .
   E.   "Qualifying Organization": For purposes of this Chapter, the term
"qualifying organization" shall mean a not-for-profit organization which has
been in existence for at least two (2) years, is in good standing with the
Illinois Secretary of State and qualified to do business in the State of
Illinois, and whose purpose and function is providing benefit, assistance or
support to charitable, athletic, religious, youth service, or any civic or
community service programs located within and/or serving the Village, and/or is
a governmental entity.
   F.   "Retail Goods Establishment" shall mean a building, property, or
activity, the principal use or purpose of which is the sale of physical goods,
products, or merchandise directly to the consumer, including food sales. In
order to qualify as a "Retail Goods Establishment", at least fifty percent
(50%) of gross revenues shall be from the sale of physical goods, products,
and/or merchandise directly to customers on premises for which the seller is
obligated by Illinois State law to collect retail sales tax. (Ord. 2018-O-17,
8-7-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-O-15, 6-13-2023; Ord. 2024-O-15, 9-3-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3 3. 235 ILCS 5/11, et seq.
2-3-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   President To Serve As Commissioner: The President of the Village shall
serve as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the Village and shall be
charged with the administration of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act,
235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11, et seq., and of this chapter, and of such
other ordinances of the Village relating to alcoholic liquor and/or relating to
the licensed premises as may be enacted by this Village from time to time. The
Village President may appoint a person or persons to serve as a deputy in order
to assist him or her in the exercise of the powers and the performance of the
duties provided for such Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   B.   Compensation: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner and any deputies
appointed by him or her shall serve without additional compensation for such
duties.
   C.   Powers, Duties And Functions: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall have the following powers, duties and functions with respect to local
liquor licenses:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause, all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within
his or her jurisdiction if he/she determines that the licensee has violated any
provision of the Illinois Liquor Control Act or any valid Village ordinance or
any applicable rule or regulation established by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission which is not inconsistent with law.
      2.   To adopt rules and regulations for the conduct and operation of a
licensee's business which are not inconsistent with Illinois State law and not
inconsistent with this Code.
      3.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Illinois State law, this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances of the Village and any rules or regulations adopted by him or her
and by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission have been or are being violated,
and at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in connection
therewith.
      4.   To receive complaints from any citizen within his or her
jurisdiction that any of the provisions of the Illinois State law, of this
chapter and all other applicable ordinances of the Village and of any rules,
regulations, or order(s) adopted by him or her have been or are being violated
and to act upon such complaint in the manner provided by law.
      5.   To cause all local licensee fees to be paid to the Village
Treasurer.
      6.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, and to examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee or
respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for his or her information in
the performance of his or her duties and for such purposes to issue subpoenas
which shall be effective in any part of this State. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to
act on his or her behalf.
      7.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary,
without notice or hearing to order, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such determination, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may order and cause a licensed premises to be closed for not more
than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that
period, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the public health, safety and/or welfare of the community, except that if such
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; PRORATION OF CERTAIN LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Village and State Licenses Required:
      1.   No person shall sell or offer for sale or possess with intention to
sell at retail in the Village any alcoholic liquor without a retailer's license
from the Village in addition to a license issued by the State of Illinois.
      2.   No person shall sell or offer for sale at retail in the Village any
alcoholic liquor in violation of the terms of conditions of the Village
license, or of the applicable State of Illinois license or in violation of any
provision of this Chapter or any provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
   B.   Proration of Certain License Fees:
      1.   When an applicant for a Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class F,
Class F.2, Class G, Class H, Class I, Class L, Class M, Class N, and/or Class O
liquor license has not engaged in the business until after the expiration of
part of the current license year, the fee for such a partial license year shall
be prorated by quarters, and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof,
except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, during which the business has
been or will be conducted.
      2.   When any holder of a liquor license issued pursuant to this Chapter
ceases its operation during any license year other than on April 30 of any
license year, there shall be no refund of any portion of the liquor license
fee.
(Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; amd. Ord. 2024-O-03, 2-15-2024)
2-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
President of the Village and shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, if
an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit. In order to ensure timely initial issuance and/
or renewal of a liquor license, a complete application for any liquor license
shall be submitted to the Village Clerk by the applicant or his, her, or its
agent(s): a) on or before March 15 of each year for a renewal for the next
license year which begins on the following May 1st; and b) at least sixty (60)
days prior to the proposed initial issuance date for any new liquor license.
Any applicant who does not submit a fully completed application with all
required supporting documents in compliance with the foregoing application
deadline(s) shall be required to pay a ten percent (10%) license fee surcharge
at the time of issuance of the liquor license(s) in question, but such license
fee surcharge may be waived by the Village President, or his or her designee,
upon good cause shown. Each application shall contain and/or be accompanied by
the following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, each person entitled to share in the
profits thereof; in the case of a limited liability company ("LLC"), each
person entitled to share in the profits and each member and each manager
thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers, directors, and registered agent, and each person owning five
percent (5%) or more of the stock of such corporation, and the name and address
of such person(s); and in the case of a club, two (2) copies of a list of names
and residences of its members and sufficient information to prove that it
qualifies as a club pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control
Act, as amended from time to time;
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   C.   The character of business of the applicant; and in the case of a
corporation or an LLC, the objects for which it was formed;
   D.   The length of time that such applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation or an LLC, the date on which it was
incorporated;
   E.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license and sufficient written evidence to
establish the applicant's ownership of the premises proposed to be licensed or
a signed lease between the applicant and the owner(s) of such premises;
   F.   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a similar
license on premises other than described in this application in this Village or
in any other jurisdiction and the disposition of such application;
   G.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this State or this Code provision of this
chapter or by reason of any provision of the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
including but not limited to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-2;
   H.   Whether a previous license by any other jurisdiction has been revoked
and the reasons therefor;
   I.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State of Illinois, of the United States, or this Code in the conduct of his or
her place of business;
   J.   Written evidence of liquor liability insurance coverage for the
licensee and the licensed premises covering the entire license year, including,
but not limited to, coverage for statutory dramshop claims in the minimum
statutory amounts. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-6: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class A License:
      1.   Retail Sale In Original Package, Not For Consumption On Premises: A
Class A license shall authorize sale at retail of alcoholic liquor in the
original package but not for consumption on the premises of sale.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the original package but not for
consumption on the premises of sale in the Village except on a day of the week
during the period beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending
with the mandatory close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Monday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Tuesday     6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Wednesday   6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Thursday    6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Friday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Saturday    6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Sunday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
 
      3.   Fee: The original fee for a Class A license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class A license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   B.   Class B License:
      1.   Restaurant: A Class B license shall authorize:
         a.   Restaurant/Sale, Serving, And Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor On
The Premises: A Class B license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving
of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises of a restaurant, except as
otherwise permitted either by Section 6-28.8 or by section 6-33 of the Illinois
Liquor Control Act, provided that the primary purpose of and operation of such
facility is use as a restaurant and provided that sales occur only during hours
when the facility is being operated as a restaurant. For purposes of this
section, a "restaurant" shall be defined as any public place, the primary
purpose of which is to be kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are regularly served, without sleeping
accommodations, such space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen
and dining area equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient
number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its
guests. A "meal" for this purpose means any food and/or beverage that is or may
be served for or as part of breakfast, lunch, brunch, or dinner. A coffee shop
may be considered a "restaurant" if it regularly serves meals.
         b.   Retail Sale In Original Package, Not For Consumption On Premises:
The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor in the original package but not for
consumption on the premises of sale.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail and/or to serve any alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises of a Class B licensee in the Village except on a day of the week
during the period beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending
with the mandatory close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                      2:00 A.M.
Saturday    9:00 A.M.                       2:00 A.M.
Sunday      9:00 A.M.                       1:00 A.M.
 
      3.   Fee: The original fee for a Class B license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class B license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   C.   Class C License:
      1.   Golf Club: A Class C license shall authorize:
         a.   Retail Sale, For Consumption On Premises: The sale at retail and
serving of alcoholic liquor for a golf club (public/semipublic/private) only
for consumption on the premises of sale, except as otherwise permitted either
by Section 6-28.8 or by section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
provided such sale and serving is accessory to the main purpose of operating a
golf club on the premises and provided further that such sale and serving is
accessory to the serving of meals on the premises in conjunction with a
restaurant operation and not from vending machines; and also
         b.   Retail Sale In Original Package, Not For Consumption On Premises:
The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor in the original package but not for
consumption on the premises of sale.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail and it shall be unlawful to serve alcoholic liquor in the
Village except on a day of the week during the period beginning with the
permitted commencement time and ending with the mandatory close time for such
day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                      2:00 A.M.
Saturday    9:00 A.M.                       2:00 A.M.
Sunday      9:00 A.M.                       1:00 A.M.
 
      3.   Fee: The original fee for a Class C license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class C license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   D.   Class D License:
      1.   Retail Sale And Serving, Consumption On Premises: A Class D license
shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of beer and wine for consumption
only on the premises of sale, except as otherwise permitted either by Section
6-28.8 or by Section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, provided that the
primary purpose of and operation of such facility is use as a restaurant and
provided that sales occur only during the hours when the facility is being
operated as a restaurant 1 . 
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail and it shall be unlawful to serve beer and wine for
consumption on the premises of sale in the Village except on a day of the week
during the period beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending
with the mandatory close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week PermittedCommencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week               Day)
Day Of Week PermittedCommencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week               Day)
Monday      11:00 A.M.                     1:00 A.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                     1:00 A.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                     1:00 A.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                     1:00 A.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                     1:00 A.M.
Saturday    11:00 A.M.                     2:00 A.M.
Sunday      11:00 A.M.                     1:00 A.M.
 
      3.   Fee: The original fee for a Class C license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7  of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class C license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7  of this Code. There shall be no fee for such a Class D Liquor License
or for a related Class F Liquor License if such licenses will be held by a
business establishment that already holds a current and valid Class M Liquor
License issued by the Village, provided, however, this fee waiver shall expire
on May 1, 2021. There shall be no fee for such a Class D Liquor License or for
a related Class F Liquor License if such licenses will be held by a business
establishment that already holds a current and valid Class M Liquor License
issued by the Village, provided, however, this fee waiver shall expire on May
1, 2021.
   E.   Class E License:
      1.   Retail Sale And Serving, Organizations And Lodges: A Class E license
shall authorize the temporary sale at retail and serving of alcoholic liquor on
the premises for which the license is issued, except as otherwise permitted
either by Section 6-28.8 or by section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
by not-for-profit corporations, including but not limited to clubs,
associations, and/or lodges, when organized for objects and purposes other than
the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic liquor, and other than for commercial
purposes, and organized for at least two (2) years prior to the date of the
application for a license.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail and it shall be unlawful to serve alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises of sale in the Village except on a day of the week
during the period beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending
with the mandatory close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                      2:00 A.M.
Saturday    9:00 A.M.                       2:00 A.M.
Sunday      9:00 A.M.                       1:00 A.M.
 
      3.   Number Of Licenses: The number of authorized Class E licenses shall
be unlimited, provided, however, no licensee shall receive more than four (4)
Class E licenses in any twelve (12) month period from May 1 through April 30.
Each application for a Class E license shall be considered as an original
application and not as an application for a renewal license.
      4.   Fee: The fee for a Class E license shall be as specified from time
to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. There shall be no renewal fee for a Class E license.
      5.   Term: The term of Class E licenses shall be for a period of twenty
four (24) hours provided that the license may be extended to a period of time
not to exceed ninety six (96) consecutive hours in the aggregate.
   F.   Class F License:
      1.   Retail Sale And Serving, Outdoor Premises: A Class F license shall
authorize the sale at retail and serving of alcoholic liquor for consumption
only on the premises, except as otherwise permitted either by Section 6-28.8 or
by section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, provided such sale and
serving is accessory to the main purpose of the serving of meals on such
outdoor premises and not a vending machine operation.
      2.   Additional License Required: A Class F license shall only be issued
to a holder of a current and valid license of one of the following types: a
Class B license, a Class C license, or a Class D license.
      3.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the outdoor premises
of sale in the Village except during the periods beginning with the permitted
commencement time and ending with the mandatory close time for the specified
day of the week, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                      12:00 midnight
Saturday    9:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Sunday      9:00 A.M.                       10:00 P.M.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Class F license shall not authorize retail
liquor sales except at those times respectively authorized by the Class B,
Class C, or Class D license to which it relates. (Ord. 2009-O-10, 6-3-2009)
      4.   Fee: The fee for a Class F license shall be as specified from time
to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
      5.   Term: The effective period for any Class F license shall be for the
license year; provided, however, that during the entire term that a Class F
license is in effect, the holder of a Class F license must, at all times during
such term, be the holder of a current and valid Class B, Class C, Class D, or
Class M license. Accordingly, if, for any reason whatsoever, such Class B,
Class C, Class D, or Class M license is revoked, suspended or terminated during
the term of the Class F license, the Class F license, upon the revocation,
suspension or termination of the Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class M license,
shall also be automatically and immediately revoked, suspended or terminated,
as the case may be, without any further action by the Village.
      6.   Definition: As used in this subsection F, "outdoor premises" shall
mean:
         a.   An area immediately adjacent to the main building for which the
Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class M license has been issued where alcoholic
liquor may be served pursuant to a Class F license issued by the Village; and
         b.   Any point within such area shall not be more than one hundred
fifty feet (150') from said main building.
         c.   No part of the outdoor premises shall include any parking lot or
parking area.
      7.   Additional Restrictions: The following shall be applicable with
respect to the outdoor premises:
         a.   The outdoor premises shall be owned or leased, and operated by
the same person to whom the respective Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class M
license has been issued.
         b.   At all times, the outdoor premises shall be used in conjunction
with the operation of the restaurant operation carried on in the main building.
         c.   The outdoor premises shall not block, in any way whatsoever, any
entrance to or exit from the said main building.
         d.   The outdoor premises shall be fully enclosed by a fence so as to
discourage ingress to and egress from the area except through designated
entrances and exits.
         e.   The maximum number of persons allowed at any time in such outdoor
premises shall be seventy five (75).
         f.   Live entertainment shall not be permitted on the outdoor premises
except when specifically approved in advance by the President and Board of
Trustees. Any other type of entertainment provided, such as, but not limited
to, music from a jukebox, radio, phonograph, shall not exceed sixty (60)
decibels in noise level as measured from the property line between the property
on which the outdoor premises is located and any adjoining property.
         g.   The artificial lighting of the outdoor premises shall be
sufficient to provide for the safety of all persons using such area but shall
not be such so as to create a nuisance or to inhibit the normal use and
enjoyment of surrounding property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as measured
from any point, the artificial lighting shall not exceed one-tenth (0.1) foot-
candle either within or without the outdoor premises.
         h.   The entire operation and use of the outdoor premises shall be
carried on so as not to create a health or safety hazard or to create a
nuisance or to interfere with the use and enjoyment of surrounding property.
   F-2.   Class F.2 Outdoor License:
      1.   Retail Sale And Serving, Outdoor Premises: A Class F.2 license shall
authorize the sale at retail and serving of alcoholic liquor for consumption
only on the premises, except as otherwise permitted either by Section 6-28.8 or
by Section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, provided such sale and
serving is accessory to the main purpose of the serving of meals on such
outdoor premises and not a vending machine operation.
      2.   Additional License Required: A Class F.2 license shall only be
issued to a holder of a current and valid Class B license.
      3.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the outdoor premises
of sale in the Village except during the periods beginning with the permitted
commencement time and ending with the mandatory close time for the specified
day of the week, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                      10:00 P.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                      11:00 P.M.
Saturday    9:00 A.M.                       11:00 P.M.
Sunday      9:00 A.M.                       10:00 P.M.
 
      4.   Fee: The fee for a Class F.2 license shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code.
      5.   Term: The effective period for any Class F.2 license shall be for
the license year; provided, however, that during the entire term that a Class
F.2 license is in effect, the holder of a Class F.2 license must, at all times
during such term, be the holder of a current and valid Class B license.
Accordingly, if, for any reason whatsoever, such Class B license is revoked,
suspended or terminated during the term of the Class F.2 license, the Class F.2
license, upon the revocation, suspension or termination of the Class B license
shall also be automatically and immediately revoked, suspended or terminated,
as the case may be, without any further action by the Village.
      6.   Definition: As used in this Subsection F.2, "outdoor premises" shall
mean:
         a.   An area used for Class F.2 operations immediately adjacent to the
main building for which the Class B license has been issued where alcoholic
liquor may be served pursuant to a Class F.2 license issued by the Village; and
         b.   Any point within such area shall not be more than one hundred
feet (100') from the main building on the Class B licensed premises.
         c.   No part of the outdoor premises shall include any parking lot or
parking area, nor shall such outdoor premises include any walkways going into
or coming out of the main building.
      7.   Additional Restrictions: The following shall be applicable with
respect to the outdoor premises:
         a.   The outdoor premises shall be owned or leased, and operated by
the same person to whom the respective Class B license has been issued.
         b.   At all times, the outdoor premises shall be used in conjunction
with the operation of the restaurant operation carried on in the main building.
         c.   The outdoor premises shall not block, in any way whatsoever, any
entrance to or exit from the said main building.
         d.   The outdoor premises shall be generally enclosed by barrier(s)
such as fencing, dense landscaping, and/or by the main building of the licensed
premises so as to discourage ingress to and egress from the area except through
designated entrances and exits.
         e.   The maximum number of persons allowed at any time in such outdoor
premises shall be one hundred fifty (150).
         f.   Live entertainment shall be permitted on the outdoor premises,
amplified to no more than sixty (60) decibels in noise level as measured from
the property line between the property on which the outdoor premises is located
and any adjoining property, except when specifically approved in advance by the
Village President and Board of Trustees. Any other type of entertainment
provided, such as, but not limited to, music from a jukebox, radio, phonograph,
shall also not exceed sixty (60) decibels in noise level as measured from the
property line between the property on which the outdoor premises is located and
any adjoining property.
         g.   The lighting of the outdoor premises shall be sufficient to
provide for the safety of all persons using such area but shall not be such so
as to create a nuisance or to inhibit the normal use and enjoyment of
surrounding property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as measured from any
point, the artificial lighting shall not exceed one-tenth (0.1) foot-candle on
any property line of the licensed premises.
         h.   The entire operation and use of the outdoor premises shall be
carried on so as not to create a health or safety hazard or to create a
nuisance or to interfere with the use and enjoyment of surrounding property.
   G.   Class G License:
      1.   Retail Sale And Serving, Consumption On Premises: Subject to the
conditions hereinafter stated, a Class G license shall authorize the sale at
retail and serving of alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of sale
only, except as otherwise permitted either by Section 6-28.8 or by section 6-33
of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, but only subject to and in compliance with
the following conditions: provided that the principal purpose of and operation
of such facility is use as a snack bar and/or restaurant within and accessory
to a recreational and/or sports and fitness facility, provided that sales occur
only during hours when food is being served, excluding any food from vending
machines.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail and it shall be unlawful to serve alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises of sale in the Village except during the periods
beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending with the mandatory
close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time (On The Next
            Such Day Of Week                Day)
Monday      11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Tuesday     11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Wednesday   11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Thursday    11:00 A.M.                      1:00 A.M.
Friday      11:00 A.M.                      2:00 A.M.
Saturday    9:00 A.M.                       2:00 A.M.
Sunday      9:00 A.M.                       1:00 A.M.
 
      3.   Fee: The original fee for a Class G license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class G license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   H.   Class H License:
      1.   Retail Sale, Beer And Wine: A Class H license shall authorize the
sale at retail of only beer and wine in the original package container but not
for consumption on the premises of sale.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail any beer and wine in the original package not for
consumption on the premises of sale in the Village except on a day of the week
during the period beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending
with the mandatory close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Monday      5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Tuesday     5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Wednesday   5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Thursday    5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Friday      5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Saturday    5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Sunday      5:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
 
      3.   Fee: The original fee for a Class H license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class H license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   I.   Class I License:
      1.   Brewpub: A Class I license shall authorize the sale at retail on the
premises for immediate delivery or by phone order, electronic mail, or regular
mail order for future delivery, of only beer and wine in the original package
container, but not for consumption on the premises.
      2.   Additional License Required: A Class I license shall only be issued
to a holder of a then valid Class B license.
      3.   Hours Of Sale: There shall be no mandatory closing time for the
holder of a Class I license, except that for sales on the premises for
immediate delivery shall be limited to those hours of sales applicable to a
Class B license.
      4.   Number Of Licenses: There is only one Class I license authorized.
      5.   Fee: The original fee for a Class I license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class I license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   J.   Class K License:
      1.    A Class K license is a special temporary liquor license for a
special event or special use where alcoholic liquor is consumed on the premises
and which will be held for community celebration, commemoration, memorial,
hospitality, fundraising, and/or for similar purposes, for a period of not to
exceed four (4) days except as otherwise approved by the Village President and
issued by the Village President acting as Local Liquor Control Commissioner
only to a) a qualifying organization, as such term is defined in Section
2-3-2, "Definitions, of this Chapter, b) the Village or another governmental
entity, c) a holder of a valid, current Lake Barrington, Illinois, Class B
(restaurant) or Class D (restaurant/wine and beer) liquor license, or d) a
holder of a similar valid, current liquor license for retail sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises from both the State of
Illinois and another local governmental entity.
      2.   Each application for a Class K special temporary liquor license for
an applicant other than the Village or another governmental entity shall
contain a copy of the applicant’s recorded Articles of Incorporation and a copy
of the applicant’s most recent annual report filed with the Secretary of State
of the State of Illinois. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each application
submitted by a qualifying organization shall include reasonable evidence of the
purpose and function that such qualifying organization is providing. All
applications shall state the time period for which the license shall be
applicable and shall state whether the license is for an outdoor or an indoor
location or some combination thereof.
      3.   Such a Class K special temporary liquor license shall authorize: a)
the sale, serving and consumption on the premises of alcoholic liquor at a
special event or special use or b) consumption of alcoholic liquor at a special
event that was not purchased on the licensed premises, which is otherwise known
as Bring Your Own Bottle ("BYOB") as defined in Section
2-3-2, "Definitions", of this Village Code but only if the applicant is the
Village or another governmental entity. Applicants for a Class K special
temporary liquor license must additionally comply with the provisions of
Subsection X.2. of Section
6-1-2 of this Code. The fee and related costs for such Class K special
temporary liquor license shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code per day and as specified in Subsection X.2. of Section
6-1-2 of this Code, but no separate application fee shall be charged. An
applicant shall be required to obtain such a Class K special temporary license
for each and every such event it holds within the Village, and the number of
events held by any such qualifying organization other than the Village shall
not exceed six (6) such events in any calendar year. No such special license
shall be issued to any applicant other than to the Village until the Village
President has received evidence that the applicant shall have satisfactory
dramshop liability insurance coverage in effect during the period for which
each such special license shall be issued.
      4.   For an applicant other than the Village, before a special event or
special use authorized by a Class K special temporary liquor license may be
held and in order for a Class K special temporary liquor license from the
Village to become effective and valid, applicants other than the Village are
subject to and shall be required to obtain the following State approval(s) from
the Illinois Liquor Control Commission:
         a.   An applicant which is a qualifying organization, as such term is
defined in Section
2-3-2, "Definitions, of this Chapter, other than the Village, shall also be
required to apply to the State of Illinois for, pay the applicable fee for, and
obtain a "Special Event Retailer's Liquor License"; and
         b.   An applicant who is either i) a holder of a valid, current Lake
Barrington, Illinois, Class B (restaurant) or Class D (restaurant/wine and
beer) license or ii) a holder of a similar valid current liquor license for
retail sale and consumption on the licensed premises of alcoholic liquor from
both the State of Illinois and another local governmental entity, shall be
required to apply to the State of Illinois for, pay the applicable fee for, and
obtain a "Special Use Permit Liquor License".
   K.   Class L License: A Class L license allows within the area specifically
designated in the license as the premises, the immediate consumption of table
wine that was not purchased on the premises, subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   A Class L license shall only be issued to a holder of a valid,
current Lake Barrington, Illinois, Class B (restaurant), Class C (golf club),
Class D (restaurant/wine and beer) and/or Class F (outdoor restaurant) license
and only if such license(s) are still valid and in effect. Accordingly, if for
any reason whatsoever, during the term of the Class L license, any one of such
Class L licensee's license(s) required pursuant to this subsection is revoked,
suspended or terminated, then upon such revocation, suspension or termination,
as the case may be, the licensee's Class L license shall also be immediately
revoked, suspended or terminated, as the case may be, without any further
action of the Village; and
      2.   A Class L license shall only permit service and consumption within
the licensed premises during the times that alcoholic liquor may be served and
consumed pursuant to the regulations for the underlying license (i.e., the
Class B, C, D, and/or F license); and
      3.   A Class L license is only intended to and shall only permit the
consumption on the premises of table wine that is not purchased on the
premises, except as otherwise permitted either by Section 6-28.8 or by section
6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act. The use of the term "alcoholic liquor"
or any other term or phrase of similar import with respect to a Class L license
is not intended to permit and shall not be construed to permit the consumption
on the premises of any kind of alcoholic liquor (other than table wine) that is
not purchased on the premises. The term "table wine" as used in reference to a
Class L license means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of
the natural contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such
beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined in
the Illinois Liquor Control Act; and
      4.   A Class L license holder may charge a reasonable fee for each bottle
of table wine that is provided by the customer and is served by the license
holder; and
      5.   A Class L license holder shall not advertise or otherwise promote
any of the activities permitted under the provisions of the Class L license;
and
      6.   Whether indoors, outdoors, or a combination thereof, the premises
upon which alcoholic liquor may be sold and served pursuant to a Class L
license shall be the same area as the premises as that term is defined in the
underlying Class B, C, D, and/or F license(s); and
      7.   All of the regulations, including, but not limited to, the
restricted hours of sale, set forth in this section applicable to a Class B, C,
D, and/or F license shall also apply to table wine, if any, served pursuant to
a Class L license; and
      8.   The original fee for a Class L license shall be as specified from
time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class L license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   L.   Class M License:
      1.   A Class M license allows the sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption off the premises as an incidental part of food service; provided
that such sales are provided by a caterer and are limited to invited guests at
catered functions. A Class M license shall only be issued to a caterer who
conducts business from a location established within the boundaries of the
Village. For purposes of a Class M license, a "caterer" or terms of similar
import shall mean and refer to a business or activity, the purpose of which is
the processing, preparing and serving of meals or food items for consumption
off the premises where prepared and on the premises of a specific customer. At
all times, the Class M license holder shall comply with all of the provisions
of this chapter governing licenses and license holders. There shall be no limit
to the number of Class M licenses issued.
      2.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Code, the
annual liquor license fee for a caterer liquor license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   M.   Class N License:
      1.   Retail Sale, Beer And Wine: A Class N license shall authorize the
sale at retail in a gas station convenience store of only beer and/or wine in
the original package container but not for consumption on the premises of sale.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail any beer and wine in the original package not for
consumption on the premises of sale in the Village except on a day of the week
during the period beginning with the permitted commencement time and ending
with the mandatory close time for such day, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Monday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Tuesday     6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Wednesday   6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Thursday    6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Friday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Saturday    6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Sunday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
 
      3.   Employee Twenty One Years Of Age To Be Present: During the hours of
sale specified in subsection M2 of this section, at least one store employee of
twenty one (21) years of age or older must be present on the licensed premises.
      4.   Fee: The original fee for a Class N license shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. The renewal fee for a Class N license shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   N.   Class O License:
      1.   Retail Goods Establishments: In connection with a retail goods
establishment, a Class O license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving
of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises for consumption only on the
licensed premises. A Class O license shall also be subject to the following
additional conditions:
         a.   Incidental to Business Operation: The sale and/or serving of
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises shall be merely incidental to the
primary business operation of the licensed premises as a retail goods
establishment, and the licensed premises shall not be advertised or otherwise
held out to be a drinking establishment;
         b.   Employee Twenty-One Years of Age to be Present: During the hours
of sale specified in Subsection 2 of this Section, at least one (1) employee of
the respective licensed retail goods establishment twenty-one (21) years of age
or older must be present on the licensed premises;
         c.   Live Entertainment Prohibited: No live entertainment of any
nature shall be permitted on the licensed premises;
         d.   No Signs: No sign or any other external indicia shall be
permitted on the licensed premises or on the surrounding property that
indicates that alcoholic liquor is available for sale and/or serving at the
licensed premises;
         e.   No holder of a Class O liquor license shall sell alcoholic liquor
other than such as authorized by their Class O liquor license; and
         f.   In no case shall the sale, service, and/or consumption on the
licensed premises of alcoholic liquor take place outside of the normal business
hours of the licensed premises and, in any event, not outside of the hours for
liquor service as otherwise set forth in Subsection 2, "Hours of Sale", below.
      2.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer
for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises of sale in the Village, except during the periods beginning with the
permitted commencement time and ending with the mandatory close time for the
specified day of the week, as follows:
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Day Of Week Permitted Commencement Time For Mandatory Close Time For Such Day
            Such Day Of Week                Of Week
Monday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Tuesday     6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Wednesday   6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Thursday    6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Friday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Saturday    6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
Sunday      6:00 A.M.                       12:00 midnight
 
      3.   Fee: The fee for a Class O license shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   O.    Hours Of Sale:
      1.   Holidays And Other Events: Notwithstanding anything contained in
this section to the contrary, for any Village liquor license which authorizes
the sale at retail and/or the serving of alcoholic liquor on New Year's Day,
St. Patrick's Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Halloween, the
day before Thanksgiving Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day,
and Super Bowl Sunday, the mandatory closing hours shall be the same as
provided for by this section for Friday and Saturday mandatory closing times
for their respective license(s).
      2.   Temporary Modifications Of Hours Of Sale And/Or Service:
Notwithstanding anything provided in this Code to the contrary, the Village
President, acting as the Village of Lake Barrington Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, may in his or her sole discretion, temporarily extend any
mandatory closing time and/or temporarily allow an earlier commencement time
for the sale and/or serving of alcoholic liquor on behalf of any holder of a
current, valid Village liquor license, for a specific day or days and/or for a
specific time period of any length in order to reasonably accommodate the
economic interests of the affected licensee(s) while giving due consideration
to the public health and safety when the Village President determines that such
a temporary extension of the closing time(s) and/or a temporary earlier
commencement time for the sale and/or serving of alcoholic liquor is
appropriate to specific circumstances. Such extension by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be accomplished by a written order executed by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and such written order may be communicated
by such means as may be reasonably expected to reach the affected licensee(s).
P.   Number and Classification of Liquor Licenses by Designated License Holder
and Address:
   1.   There shall be issued in the Village not more than two (2) Class A
Licenses; four (4) Class B Licenses; one (1) Class C License; one (1) Class D
License; the number of Class E licenses shall be unlimited as described in
Paragraph E of Section 2-3-6 of this Village Code; four (4) Class F Licenses;
one (1) Class F.2 License; two (2) Class G Licenses; zero (0) Class H Licenses;
one (1) Class I License; two (2) Class L Licenses; three (3) Class M Licenses;
one (1) Class N License; and zero (0) Class O Licenses; as set forth below:
Licensee and D/B/A, If Applicable Address of Premises for Which the License is
                                  Authorized and Issued
                                                                       Address of
                                                                       Premises
                                                                       for Which
Licensee and D/B/A, If Applicable                                      the License
                                                                       is
                                                                       Authorized
                                                                       and Issued
CLASS A (Retail sale in original package, not for consumption on premises.)
                                                                       5075
                                                                       Shoreline
(1)   Arshad Mart, Inc., d/b/a LB Mart                              Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       28144 W.
                                                                       Industrial
                                                                       Avenue,
(2)   Ruther Racing, Ltd. d/b/a Northstar Motorsports               Suite 108,
                                                                       Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS B (Retail sale and serving full liquor; consumption on premises)
                                                                       352 Kelsey
(1)   KRH Unlimited, Inc., d/b/a Kelsey Road House                  Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       22221 N.
                                                                       Pepper
(2)   Onion Pub and Brewery, Inc., d/b/a Onion Pub                  Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       28686 W.
                                                                       Northwest
                                                                       Highway,
(3)   Orchard Prime Steakhouse, LLC, d/b/a Lake Barrington SteakhousUnit No. F,
                                                                       Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       5047
                                                                       Shoreline
(4)   Zaza Enterprises, Inc., d/b/a Zaza’s Tavola Italiana        Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS C (Golf club: Retail sales; consumption on premises; and retail sale in
original package, not for consumption on premises)
                                                                       40
                                                                       Shoreline
(1)   Lake Barrington Shores Golf Club, LLC                         Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS D (Beer and wine, retail sale and serving; consumption on premises)
                                                                       22000 N.
                                                                       Pepper
(1)   Whisk Management, LLC., d/b/a Wild Asparagus Catering         Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS F (Outdoor Premises: Retail sale and serving. Must have a Class B, or a
Class C, or a Class D, or a Class M License also.)
                                                                       40
                                                                       Shoreline
(1)   Lake Barrington Shores Golf Club, LLC                         Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       22221 N.
                                                                       Pepper
(2)   Onion Pub and Brewery, Inc., d/b/a Onion Pub                  Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       28686 W.
                                                                       Northwest
                                                                       Highway,
(3)   Orchard Prime Steakhouse, LLC, d/b/a Lake Barrington SteakhousUnit No. F,
                                                                       Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       5047
                                                                       Shoreline
(4)   Zaza Enterprises, Inc., d/b/a Zaza’s Tavola Italiana        Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS F.2 (Outdoor Premises: Retail sale and serving. Must have a Class B License
also.)
                                                                       352 Kelsey
(1)   KRH Unlimited, Inc. d/b/a Kelsey Road House                   Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS G (Snack bar/restaurant, fitness center: Retail sale and serving;
consumption on premises)
                                                                       28039 W.
                                                                       Northpointe
(1)   Battle House, LLC, d/b/a Battle House Laser Combat            Parkway,
                                                                       Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       28156 W.
                                                                       Northpointe
(2)   Lake Barrington Sportsplex, LLC, d/b/a Canlan Sportsplex Lake Parkway,
Barrington                                                             Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS H (Retail sale, beer and wine only; not for consumption on premises)
   NONE                                                             --
CLASS I (Brew pub: Retail sale, not for consumption on premises. Must have a Class
B License also.)
                                                                       22221 N.
                                                                       Pepper
(1)   Onion Pub and Brewery, Inc., d/b/a Onion Pub                  Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS L (Bring your own table wine; corkage fee)
                                                                       22221 N.
                                                                       Pepper
(1)   Onion Pub and Brewery, Inc., d/b/a Onion Pub                  Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       5047
                                                                       Shoreline
(2)   Zaza Enterprises, Inc., d/b/a Zaza’s Tavola Italiana        Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS M (Catering)
                                                                       352 Kelsey
(1)   KRH Unlimited, Inc.d/b/a Kelsey Road House                    Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       22000 N.
                                                                       Pepper
(2)   Whisk Management, LLC, d/b/a Wild Asparagus Catering          Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
                                                                       5047
                                                                       Shoreline
(3)   Zaza Enterprises, Inc., d/b/a Zaza’s Tavola Italiana        Road, Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS N (Gas station w/convenience store: Retail sale of beer and wine only; not
for consumption on premises)
                                                                       28540
                                                                       Northwest
(1)   Speedway, LLC, d/b/a Speedway 6210                            Highway,
                                                                       Lake
                                                                       Barrington,
                                                                       IL
CLASS O (Retail goods establishment: Sale and serving of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on licensed premises.)
None                                                                   --
 
For each of the foregoing liquor licenses, each such license hereby
respectively authorized may be issued only for the premises for the respective
Licensee(s) and addresses listed above and may not be transferred to any other
premises or to any other person(s) or to any other entity(ies).
(Ord. 2008-O-15, 4-1-2008; amd. Ord. 2009-O-10, 6-3-2009; Ord. 2010-O-13, 8-3-
2010; Ord. 2012-O-07, 8-7-2012; Ord. 2014-O-07, 4-3-2014; Ord. 2014-O-15, 11-5-
2014; Ord. 2014-O-19, 12-2-2014; Ord. 2015-O-14, 11-3-2015; Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-
7-2018; Ord. 2018-O-22, 11-13-2018; Ord. 2020-O-08, 3-3-2020; Ord. 2020-O-14,
6-3-2020; Ord. 2020-O-20, 12-1-2020; Ord. 2021-O-13, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-O-
08, 3-2-2023; Ord. 2023-O-15, 6-13-2023; Ord. 2023-O-25, 10-3-2023; Ord. 2024-
O-01, 1-2-2024; Ord. 2024-O-04, 2-15-2024; Ord. 2024-O-09, 4-17-2024; Ord.
2024-O-15, 9-3-2024; Ord. 2025-O-05, 4-8-2025; Ord. 2025-O-08, 5-6-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in 235 ILCS 5/1-3.23, excluding any food vending machine
  operation.
2-3-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid with a cashier's or certified check made payable to
the order of the Village and delivered to the Village at the time application
is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village Treasurer. In the
event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
General Corporate Fund or in such fund as shall have been designated by the
Board of Trustees by proper action. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-8: PERSONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license required by the provisions of this chapter shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the Village, unless the licensee is a
corporation or limited liability company;
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation;
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines after investigation
that such person has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public
trust. The burden of proof relative to sufficient rehabilitation shall be on
the applicant;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
promoting prostitution;
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   G.   A person whose license issued pursuant to the Illinois Liquor Control
Act, as amended from time to time, or this chapter has been revoked for cause;
   H.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under this chapter would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   I.   A partnership or limited liability company, unless all of the partners
or members of such a partnership and/or all of the members and managers of a
limited liability company shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license under the Illinois Liquor Control Act or
this chapter for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision;
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company, unless it is incorporated
in Illinois or unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified by law to
transact business in the State of Illinois;
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the Illinois Liquor Control Act or shall have
forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought or does not have a signed lease thereon for the full period for which
the license is to be issued;
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, including any member of the Local
Liquor Control Commission, if any, President of the Village Board of Trustees,
any member of the Village Board of Trustees, and no such official shall be
interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale
or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to
such official in relation to premises which are not located within the
territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such
license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission;
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
in section 28-1.1 or section 28-3 of the Illinois Criminal Code as heretofore
or hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the
aforesaid statutory provisions;
   R.   A person or entity to whom a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a license under
the Raffles and Poker Runs Act 1 . (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01, et seq.
2-3-9: CERTIFICATE OR APPROVED INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
Prior to the beginning of each license year, all applicants shall submit
certifications and/or approved inspections issued within the last ninety (90)
days from the Lake County Health Department, from the applicable Fire
Protection District, and from the Village's building inspector, confirming that
the proposed licensed premises complies with the respective regulations of each
such jurisdiction. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-10: FINGERPRINTING AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may require any applicant for a new
liquor license or any applicant for a renewal of a liquor license:
   A.   Fingerprinting: To be fingerprinted, whether said applicant is an
individual or a partnership. If the applicant is a corporation, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner may, within his or her discretion, require each of
the officers, manager or director thereof or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the capital stock of
said corporation, and if the applicant is a limited liability company, each
member and manager to be fingerprinted; and
   B.   Financial Statements: To supply the appropriate information indicating
that the applicant has the necessary financial ability to properly conduct the
business. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-11: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PREMISES; TRANSFER TO OTHER PREMISES:
   A.   Separate License: A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and in the
license issued thereon, and only one location shall be so described in each
license. After a license has been granted for a particular premises, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, upon application by the licensee, may endorse upon
the license, permission to abandon the premises thereon described and to remove
the license to other premises approved by him/her and described in the
endorsement. (Ord. 93-O-11, 4-22-1993; amd. 1996 Code)
   B.   Transfer Of License: The application for transfer shall be in writing
under oath and shall fully describe the new premises. The reasons for transfer
shall be given and it shall be shown that the new premises complies in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter and the Illinois Liquor Control
Act, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-12: DURATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL FEE:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every license shall terminate on
April 30 next following issuance unless sooner revoked or suspended. The fee
for a new license shall be the original fee reduced in proportion to the number
of full months that have expired since the last prior May 1. There shall be no
rebate for the unexpired term of a license. An application for renewal shall
not be considered as such unless made prior to April 30, and unless submitted
with the appropriate fee. No license shall be valid unless the proper fee has
been paid. Licenses shall state thereon the class to which they belong, the
names of the licensees and the addresses and description of the premises for
which they are granted. (Ord. 2003-O-08, 5-6-2003)
2-3-13: LIST OF LICENSES:
The Village President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
such licenses issued by him/her and shall furnish the Village Treasurer with a
copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license or the revocation of any old
license, the President shall give written notice of such action to such Village
Treasurer within forty eight (48) hours. (Ord. 93-O-11, 4-22-1993; amd. 1996
Code)
2-3-14: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his, her, or its license to be framed and hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-
7-2018)
2-3-15: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
In the event of the loss or destruction of a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, upon written application to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, a
duplicate license shall be issued. The fees for the issuance of a duplicate
license shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
2-3-16: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked or suspended, as provided in this chapter,
and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution,
but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee provided that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor
under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or
such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but in no
event longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee. (Ord. 93-O-11, 4-22-1993)
2-3-17: CHANGE IN PERSONNEL:
Any addition or change in owner(s), partner(s), manager(s), member(s), officer
(s), director(s), shareholder(s), or any other change in ownership or
management personnel shall be reported in writing to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner within ten (10) days of the change. All new personnel shall meet
all the standards of this chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a liquor
license. All such changes in personnel shall be subject to review by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
   A.   When a license has been issued to an entity, and a change of owner(s),
partner(s), manager(s), member(s), officer(s), director(s), shareholder(s), or
any other change in ownership or management personnel occurs resulting in the
licensee no longer being eligible to hold a liquor license, said license shall
be revoked.
   B.   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall be revoked. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-
2018)
2-3-18: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Right Of Renewal: Any person or entity having a license issued under
this chapter may renew such license at the expiration thereof; provided, he,
she or it is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which
such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and provided
further, that such renewal privilege shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case either prevent a revocation of the license for cause or
which shall in any case prevent the Board of Trustees from decreasing the
number of licenses to be issued within the Village.
   B.   Reduction In Number Of Licenses: In the event that the Village shall
reduce the number of licenses below that number issued in the prior year and
the number of applicants does not decrease so as to be equal to or less than
the number of available licenses, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
issue the available licenses on the basis of date of application, years holding
prior licenses, adequate service to areas in the Village, record of violations
or any other reasonable basis. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-19: HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Safe And Sanitary Conditions Required: All premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor or of storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept in
full compliance with the provisions of this Code requiring the premises to be
in safe condition and requiring the safe and sanitary storage and handling of
food for human consumption. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   B.   Employees And Others: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises
open to the public or engaged in the transportation, processing, preparation or
packaging of food or beverages any person who the employer knew or should have
known based upon reasonable observation was afflicted with, or who is a carrier
of, any contagious or infectious disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who knew or should have known that he or she was afflicted with or a
carrier of any such disease to work in or about any such premises. (Ord. 93-O-
11, 4-22-1993; amd. 1996 Code)
2-3-20: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for the
aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any
military or naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where
such church or school has been established within such one hundred feet (100')
since the issuance of the original license. (Ord. 2004-O-11, 5-4-2004)
2-3-21: GENERAL ALCOHOL REGULATION:
   A.   Individuals Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any licensee, officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to sell,
give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person known by him/her to be a
habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in
need of mental treatment, and no person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to
another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service, or acting at the direction of a
law enforcement officer; provided, however, no licensee to whom a license has
been issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall permit or allow
any employee or other person, male or female, under the age of twenty one (21)
years, to draw, pour, mix, serve, or sell any alcoholic liquor, provided,
however, nothing contained in this section or in this chapter shall prohibit or
be construed to prohibit the temporary possession of alcoholic liquor by an
employee of a Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, Class F, Class G, Class I,
Class K, and/or Class L licensee which employee is at least eighteen (18) years
of age but less than twenty one (21) years of age, while lawfully serving
alcoholic liquor to one or more customers at table(s) in the course of their
employment, if such employee is always working under the supervision of another
employee of the licensee who is at least twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord.
2008-O-18, 5-6-2008)
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place in the Village where
alcoholic liquor is sold. If a licensee or licensee's agent or employees
believe, has reason to believe, or should have reason to believe that a sale or
delivery to a prospective recipient is prohibited, shall, before making such
sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties. Reasonable care in compliance with the provisions of this
subsection shall be competent evidence and may be considered in prosecution,
revocation or suspension for the violation of any section of this chapter
relating to a person's age but shall not act as a defense or bar to
prosecution, revocation or suspension for the violation of any other provision
of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   C.   Identification:
      1.   Transfer, Alteration Or Defacing Identification: No person shall
transfer, alter or deface such an identification card, allow another person to
use their identification card, use the identification card of another, carry or
use a false or forged identification card or obtain an identification card by
means of false information all for the purpose of obtaining or seeking to
obtain alcoholic liquor. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have
possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
      2.   Demand For Identification: If a licensee or licensee's agents or
employees believe or have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of this prospective
recipient, he/she shall, before making such sale or delivery, demand
presentation or some form of positive identification containing proof of age
issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official duties.
      3.   Refusal To Serve: For the purpose of preventing the violation of
this section, any licensee, or licensee's agent or employee, may refuse to sell
or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce the
required written evidence of identity and of the fact that he/she is over the
age of twenty one (21) years.
   D.   Minors:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase,
receive, accept, have in his or her possession or control, or consume any
alcoholic beverages.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, licensee's agent or employee,
to permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to draw, pour or
mix any alcoholic liquor.
      3.   No persons under twenty one (21) years of age shall purchase, accept
delivery or have possession of or consume alcoholic liquor.
      4.   No person after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony
or service, or acting at the direction of a law enforcement officer.
      5.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer, permit or allow
the violation of the provisions of this section in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, hotel room, shed, yard, premises,
or other area of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee,
legal possessor or occupier thereof. Whenever a person is present within any
motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, hotel room, shed,
yard, premises or other area of which such person is the owner, lessee,
permittee, bailee, legal possessor or occupier thereof at the time that a
violation of the provisions of this section occurs therein, it shall be prima
facie evidence that such person had knowledge of such violation.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor
child of which he or she be parent or guardian to violate any provisions of
this section.
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
to remain in any motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room,
hotel room, shed, yard, premises, or other area when said person knows, or
reasonably should know, that one or more other persons under the age of twenty
one (21) years are located in such motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house,
apartment, room, hotel room, shed, yard, premises, or other area are:
         a.   In possession of any cannabis or controlled substance prohibited
by Illinois Statute;
         b.   In possession of any alcoholic beverages, except that a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years may be in possession of or consume
alcoholic beverages in the performance of a bona fide religious service or
ceremony.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person who has ownership or control of
any premises to knowingly suffer, permit or allow two (2) or more persons under
the age of twenty one (21) years to assemble or be assembled on such premises:
         a.   In possession of any cannabis or controlled substance prohibited
by Illinois Statute;
         b.   In possession of any alcoholic beverages, except that a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years may be in possession of or consume
alcoholic beverages in the performance of a bona fide religious service or
ceremony.
      9.   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit, or be construed as
prohibiting a person under the age of twenty one (21) years from:
         a.   Participating in a religious ceremony;
         b.   Acting at the direction of a law enforcement officer;
         c.   Having the temporary possession of alcoholic liquor as an
employee of a Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, Class F, Class G, Class I,
Class K, and/or Class L licensee which employee is at least eighteen (18) years
of age but less than twenty one (21) years of age, while lawfully serving
alcoholic liquor to one or more customers at table(s) in the course of their
employment, if such employee is always working under the supervision of another
employee of the licensee who is at least twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord.
2008-O-18, 5-6-2008)
2-3-22: HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS:
All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged for all
drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed premises
or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a hotel or multiuse establishment
which holds a valid retailer's license operates on its premises more than one
establishment at which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at retail, the hotel
or multiuse establishment shall maintain at each such establishment a separate
schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at that establishment.
   A.   Prohibited: No retail licensee, employee or agent of such licensee
shall:
      1.   Sell more than one drink of alcoholic liquor for the price of one
drink of alcoholic liquor; (Ord. 2015-O-12, 8-5-2015)
      2.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public, or except as
otherwise permitted by the Illinois Liquor Control Act; (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-
2018)
      3.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      4.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      5.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under subsections A1 through A4 of
this section.
   B.   Allowed: Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a
licensee from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      2.   Including drinks or alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      3.   Selling or offering for sale a party package only if the retail
licensee: a) offers food in the dedicated event space; b) limits the party
package to no more than three (3) hours; c) distributes wristbands, lanyards,
shirts, or any other such wearable items to identify party package attendees so
the attendees may be granted access to the dedicated event space; and d)
excludes individuals not participating in the party package from the dedicated
event space;
      4.   Including drinks or alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      5.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      6.   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      7.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets of bottled beer), carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are
customarily sold in such manner or selling bottles of spirits;
      8.   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole
or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not
regularly scheduled; or
      9.   Discounting any drink of alcoholic liquor during a specified time
period only if:
         a.   The price of the drink of alcoholic liquor is not changed during
the time that it is discounted;
         b.   The period of time during which any drink of alcoholic liquor is
discounted does not exceed four (4) hours per day and fifteen (15) hours per
week; however, this period of time is not required to be consecutive and may be
divided by the licensee in any manner;
         c.   The drink of alcoholic liquor is not discounted between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and the licensed premises' closing hour; and (Ord.
2015-O-12, 8-5-2015)
         d.   Notice of the discount of the drink of alcoholic liquor during a
specified time is posted on the licensed premises or on the licensee's publicly
available website at least seven (7) days prior to the specified time.
All licensees affected by this section must also comply with all other
applicable provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act 1  and of this Code,
as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   C.   Private Functions: Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a
retail licensee, or an employee or agent thereof, may offer an unlimited number
of drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price at a "private
function" as that term is defined in the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
   D.   BASSET: Licensees shall comply with the Illinois Liquor Control Act 2 ,
and without any limitation on the foregoing, with the requirements of that Act
relative to responsible alcohol service servers training (i.e., Beverage
Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training ("BASSET")) and relative to
"happy hours" and product sampling.
   E.   Violation: A violation of this section shall be grounds for the
suspension or revocation of a licensee's license by the Village's Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
   F.   Product Sampling:
      1.   Retailer, distributor, importing distributor, manufacturer and
nonresident dealer licensees may conduct product sampling for consumption at a
licensed retail location. Up to three (3) samples, consisting of no more than:
a) one-fourth (1/4) ounce of distilled spirits, b) one ounce of wine, or c) two
(2) ounces of beer may be served to a consumer in one day.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection F1 of this section, an
on premises retail licensee may offer for sale and serve more than one drink
per person for sampling purposes.
      3.   In any event, all provisions of section 6-28 of the Illinois Liquor
Control Act 3  and of this section relative to happy hour restrictions shall
apply to an on premises retail licensee that conducts product sampling. (Ord.
2015-O-12, 8-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-28.
2-3-23: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Refilling Original Packages: No person licensed under this chapter
shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic
liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor and it
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at
retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic liquors,
except in original packages.
   B.   Solicitation Of Drinks: It shall be unlawful for any licensee,
licensee's manager or other person in charge of any licensed premises where
alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale for consumption thereon to engage,
employ or permit the engagement or employment of any person nor shall any
person be permitted to remain on said premises, who shall solicit any patron or
customer thereof to purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor.
   C.   Denial Of Civil Rights: No licensee licensed under the provisions of
this chapter shall deny or permit licensee's agents and employees to deny any
person the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages,
facilities and privileges of any premises in which alcoholic liquors are
authorized to be sold subject only to the conditions and limitations
established by law and applicable alike to all citizens.
   D.   Sales On Credit: No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at
retail to any person on credit or on a passbook, or order on a store, or in
exchange for any goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services
rendered; and if any person shall extend credit for such purpose, the debt
thereby attempted to be created shall not be recoverable at law, provided that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club from permitting
checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide
guests of members and charged to the account of such members or guests in
accordance with the bylaws of said club, and provided further that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks
or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at said hotel
and charged to the accounts of said guests, and provided further that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent payment by credit card or other
credit device for the purchase of liquor in the original package or container
for consumption off the premises.
   E.   Employment Of Minors: No licensee to whom a license has been issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall employ any person, male or
female, under the age of twenty one (21) years for the purpose of drawing,
pouring, mixing, serving or selling any alcoholic liquor.
   F.   Premises: Where alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale for
consumption thereon to engage, employ or permit the engagement or employment of
any person nor shall any person be permitted to remain on said premises, who
shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to purchase alcoholic or
nonalcoholic liquor. (Ord. 2008-O-15, 4-1-2008)
   G.   Bringing Liquor Onto Premises: Except as otherwise provided by the
Illinois Liquor Control Act and/or by this chapter for consumption on its
licensed premises, at no time shall any person bring or be permitted by the
licensee to bring any other alcoholic liquor onto the premises of any
restaurant or onto any other premises requiring a license under this chapter
for consumption on said premises. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-24: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-25: VIOLATION OF RETAILER OCCUPATION TAX ACT:
In addition to other grounds specified herein, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, upon the complaint of the Illinois Department of Revenue, may
refuse the issuance or renewal of a retailer's license or suspend or revoke
such license for any of the following violations of the "Retailer Occupation
Tax Act", approved June 28, 1933, as amended:
   A.   Failure to make a tax return.
   B.   The filing of a fraudulent return.
   C.   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined to
be due.
   D.   Failure to keep books and records.
   E.   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificate of
registration.
   F.   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the Illinois Department
of Revenue relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
(Ord. 93-O-11, 4-22-1993)
2-3-26: COMPLAINT FOR VIOLATION:
Any person shall have the right to file a complaint with the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner stating that any retail licensee within the Village has
been or is violating the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, and
this Code and/or the rules, regulations, and orders of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. Such complaint shall be in the form prescribed by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be in writing and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular
statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or order believed to have been violated
and the facts in detail upon which such belief is based. If the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a
violation and that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such
belief, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall set the matter for hearing
and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing
and of the particular charge in the complaint. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-3-27: NOTICE, HEARING AND ORDER:
No liquor license shall be revoked or suspended except after a public hearing
before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall give written notice to the licensee not less than three (3)
days prior to the hearing, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five (5) days after
such hearing, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines that the
license should be revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such
determination in a written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a
copy of such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee. (Ord. 93-O-11,
4-22-1993; amd. 1996 Code)
2-3-28: RECOVERY OF FEES:
Whenever any license hereunder has been revoked or suspended as provided for in
this chapter, the licensee shall not recover any of the monies that have been
paid for said license. (Ord. 93-O-11, 4-22-1993)
2-3-29: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product, substance, or device not consisting of
or containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of
nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling,
snorting, sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product"
excludes cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco products as
these terms are defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 675/1 et seq., and
any product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a
non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for that approved purpose.
SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Any tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or
chewing.
SMOKING HERBS: All substances of plant origin and their derivatives, including,
but not limited to, broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops, ginseng,
lobelia, jimsonweed and other members of the Datura genus, passionflower and
wild lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for use as smoking
materials.
SMOKING OR TO SMOKE: The act of inhaling and/or exhaling the smoke from or
carrying or possessing any form of lighted tobacco product(s), or the act of
inhaling, exhaling, or otherwise ingesting or using, vaporizing, or vaping
alternative nicotine products, smoking herbs, and/or smokeless tobacco
products.
TOBACCO ACCESSORIES: Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of
all types, cigarette rolling machines and other items designed primarily for
the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or of substances made illegal
under any statute or of substances whose sale, gift, barter or exchange is made
unlawful under this chapter.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, or smokeless tobacco.
VAPING OR TO VAPE: The act of inhaling, exhaling, vaporizing, or otherwise
using or ingesting alternative nicotine product(s).
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products. (Ord. 2018-O-21, 10-9-2018)
   B.   Underage Persons:
      1.   Tobacco Products, Alternative Nicotine Products, And Smoking Herbs:
         a.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall buy, possess,
smoke, or inhale any tobacco product(s), alternative nicotine product(s), and/
or smoking herbs in any of their respective forms.
         b.   No person, including but not limited to any licensee, shall sell,
buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any tobacco product(s), alternative
nicotine product(s), and/or smoking herbs in any of their respective forms to
any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or
permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to sell tobacco products,
tobacco accessories, alternative nicotine product(s), and/or smoking herbs in
any of their respective forms.
      2.   Tobacco Accessories:
         a.   No person shall knowingly sell, barter, exchange, deliver or give
away or cause or permit or procure to be sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered
or given away any tobacco accessory(ies) to any person under twenty one (21)
years of age.
         b.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall buy or possess
any tobacco accessory(ies).
      3.   Sale(s) To Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One Prohibited: Before
selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing any tobacco product(s),
tobacco accessory(ies), alternative nicotine product(s), and/or smoking herbs,
or any cartridge, component, or part thereof to another person, the person
selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing any such product(s) and/or
accessory(ies) shall verify that the person receiving any such product(s) and/
or accessory(ies) is at least twenty one (21) years of age by:
         a.   Obtaining from any person who appears to be under thirty (30)
years of age and examining such person's government- issued photographic
identification that establishes that such person is at least twenty one (21)
years of age, or
         b.   For sales made through the internet or other remote sales
methods, performing an age verification through an independent, third-party age
verification service that compares information available from public records to
the personal information entered by the person placing such order during the
ordering process that establishes the person is twenty one (21) years of age or
older.
      4.   False Identification Cards: It shall be unlawful for any person to
display or use a false or forged form of identification or to transfer, alter
or deface any government-issued form of identification for the purpose of
obtaining any tobacco product(s), tobacco accessory(ies), alternative nicotine
product(s), and/or smoking herbs in any of their respective forms.
      5.   Warning To Underage Persons:
         a.   Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation operating a
place of business wherein tobacco products, tobacco accessories, alternative
nicotine products and/or smoking herbs in any of their respective forms are
sold or offered for sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the business
premises near every display of tobacco products, tobacco accessories,
alternative nicotine products and/or smoking herbs a sign upon which there
shall be imprinted the following statement:
SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, TOBACCO ACCESSORIES, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS,
AND/OR SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE OR THE
MISREPRESENTATION OF ONE'S AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROCURING ANY OF SUCH ITEMS
IS PROHIBITED BY LAW. POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, TOBACCO ACCESSORIES,
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS, AND/OR SMOKING HERBS BY ANY SUCH UNDERAGE PERSON
IS ALSO PROHIBITED BY LAW.
         b.   Such a sign shall be printed on a white card in red letters at
least one-half inch (1/2") in height.
   C.   Sample Distribution: No person shall distribute without charge sample
(s) of any tobacco product(s) or of any alternative nicotine product(s) to any
other person, regardless of age:
      1.   Within a retail establishment selling tobacco product(s) and/or
alternative nicotine product(s), unless the retailer has verified that the
recipient is twenty one (21) years of age or older by the recipient's
presentation of a government- issued form of photographic identification;
      2.   From any mobile vehicle;
      3.   On a public way as a promotion or advertisement of a distributor
and/or manufacturer of tobacco, tobacco product(s), and/or alternative nicotine
product(s).
      4.   This subsection C shall not apply to the distribution of a tobacco
product sample in any adult-only retail facility. For the purpose of this
section, "adult only retail facility" means an enclosed retail facility or
retail area where the operator ensures or has a reasonable basis to believe
(such as by checking identification as required under State law, or by checking
the identification of any person appearing to be under the age of 30) that no
person under legal age is present in such a restricted facility and persons
under the age of twenty one (21) shall be permanently prohibited from such
restricted facility.
   D.   Vending Machines; Locking Devices: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away, deliver or to keep with the
intention of selling, giving away or delivering tobacco products and/or
alternative nicotine products by use of a vending machine unless such vending
machine is equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking device
controlled by the licensee so as to prevent its operation by persons under the
age of twenty one (21) years. Any premises where access by persons under the
age of twenty one (21) years is prohibited by law or premises where the public
is generally not permitted and where vending machines are strictly for the use
of employees of a business located at such premises shall be exempt from the
requirements of this subsection. (Ord. 2019-O-08, 6-5-2019)
   E.   Smoke-Free Illinois Act: The "Smoke-Free Illinois Act" 1  is hereby
incorporated into this Code by reference as fully as if set forth herein in its
entirety, provided, however, for the purposes of this subsection E and the
Smoke-Free Illinois Act as adopted herein, the terms "to smoke" or "smoking"
and "to vape", or "vaping" shall be as defined in this section.
   F.   Fines: The fine for each violation of this section shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-O-21, 10-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 82/1, et seq.
2-3-30: PENALTIES:
   A.   Petty Offense: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provisions of this chapter of failing
to comply with any of the requirements hereof, or who shall violate a license,
any approval or condition of approval, or any directive of the Liquor Control
Commissioner or of the Board of Trustees, issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by fine(s) and other
penalties as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this chapter or of failing
to comply with any requirement thereof, or of violating any license, any
approval or any directive of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or of the
Board of Trustees, issued under the provision of this chapter, shall, in
addition to the fine(s) and other penalties provided, be obligated to reimburse
the Village for its attorney fees to the extent permitted by law, court costs,
court reporter costs, expert witness fees and all other out of pocket costs
incurred by the Village in the prosecution of the said violation or violations.
   C.   Joint Liability: The owner of record, beneficiaries, general agent and/
or contractor for the building, premises or property where such violation has
been committed or shall exist, and the lessee or tenant of an entire building,
premises or property, or any part thereof, and anyone who assists in such
violation shall all be jointly and severally liable for any such violation.
   D.   Injunction: The Village may make application to the Circuit Court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter. (Ord.
2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2018-O-21, 10-9-2018)
CHAPTER 4
RESTAURANTS AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Applicability Of Regulations
2-4-3: License Provisions
2-4-4: Enforcement Provisions
2-4-5: Condition Of Premises
2-4-6: Restaurant Appurtenances And Equipment
2-4-7: Employee Regulations
2-4-8: Utensils And Equipment
2-4-9: Food And Drink
2-4-10: Prohibitions And Prohibited Conditions
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
 
                               The Village Administrator, or that Village
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:           officer, employee, or agent designated by the
                               Village Administrator to enforce the provisions
                               of this chapter.
                               A mobile food vendor which sells, as part its
                               operations, ice cream, frozen yogurt, gelato,
                               and/or other frozen confectionary as food. An
                               ice cream vendor can operate on any public
                               right-of-way within the Village, but only if
                               such vendor has been currently licensed by the
                               Village, which license shall be displayed on the
                               ice cream vendor's vehicle whenever operating
                               within the Village. An ice cream vendor shall be
                               licensed by the Village only if the vendor or
                               the owner(s) and officer(s) thereof and each ice
                               cream vendor employee who will work within the
                               Village have first been fingerprinted and
                               submitted to a criminal history background check
                               by the Federal Bureau of Investigation ("FBI")
ICE CREAM VENDOR:              and/or the Illinois State Police. For this
                               purpose, a license application for ice cream
                               vendors and their respective employees provides
                               and shall use the same standards of review for
                               such application and the related criminal
                               background check history as are made applicable
                               by the Village Code to applicants for a Village
                               liquor license. Fingerprinting and submittal to
                               a criminal history background check for the
                               owner(s) and officer(s) of the vendor and for
                               each current employee of an ice cream vendor who
                               will be employed by such vendor within the
                               Village shall occur prior to commencement of
                               work within the Village and not less than once
                               in every two (2) Village fiscal years
                               thereafter.
                               A restaurant operating for a temporary period in
ITINERANT RESTAURANT:          connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public
                               exhibition or other similar gathering.
LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Lake County, Illinois Board of Health.
                               Any person or food service establishment which
                               travels from place to place and carries on a
                               business of preparing food, storing food, and/or
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:            offering food for sale from a mobile vehicle,
                               trailer, push-cart, or similar conveyance which
                               stops temporarily for the purpose of selling and
                               serving such food items. A food truck is one
                               type of mobile food vendor.
                               Any restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short
                               order cafe, luncheonette, tavern, sandwich
                               stand, soda fountain and any other eating or
RESTAURANT:                    drinking establishment or kitchen or other place
                               in which food or drink is prepared for sale
                               elsewhere. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. Ord.
                               2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; Ord. 2022-O-08, 7-11-2022)
 
2-4-2: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter apply to restaurants and itinerant restaurants.
(Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968)
2-4-3: LICENSE PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate a restaurant or itinerant
restaurant without first obtaining a license as provided in chapter 2 of this
title. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
   B.   Approval Of Enforcement Officer And County Health Department: No
license shall be issued without the approval of the Enforcement Officer, or his
or her designee, and proof that the applicant is the holder of a proper valid
permit issued by the Lake County, Illinois Board of Health (i.e., the "Lake
County Health Department"). (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   C.   Fees: The respective license fees for a restaurant or an itinerant
restaurant shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
2-4-4: ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Enforcement Officer to cause the Lake County Health
Department, from time to time, to inspect and examine all restaurants located
within the Village for the purpose of ascertaining whether this chapter, the
ordinances of the Lake County Board of Health, and the laws of the State of
Illinois relative to the keeping of restaurants are being complied with. It
shall be the duty of every owner, operator, and/or keeper of a restaurant
located within the Village to permit such inspections to be made, and when
required, to furnish samples of any food kept, sold, offered for sale or served
in such restaurants, which samples shall be examined or analyzed by or under
the direction of the Lake County Health Department. A record of each
examination or analysis shall be made and kept on file with the Enforcement
Officer. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-4-5: CONDITION OF PREMISES:
   A.   Lighting: All rooms or places of a restaurant shall be properly and
adequately lighted so that all parts may be inspected readily.
   B.   Walls And Ceilings: The walls and ceilings shall be smooth, hard
material and must be kept clean and sanitary and in good repair. All walls and
ceilings of rooms in which food or drink is stored or prepared shall be
finished in light color. The walls of all rooms in which food or drink is
prepared or utensils are washed shall have a smooth, washable surface up to the
level reached by splash or spray.
   C.   Restaurant Floors: The floors of all rooms in which food or drink is
stored, prepared or served or in which utensils are washed shall be smooth,
hard material and must be kept clean and sanitary and in good repair at all
times.
   D.   Toilets And Lavatories:
      1.   Toilet Facilities: Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate
and conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees, conforming with
the provisions of this Code. In restaurants hereafter constructed, toilet rooms
shall not open directly into any room in which food, drink or utensils are
handled or stored. The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet
rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in good repair, well lighted and
ventilated. Handwashing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by
employees.
      2.   Lavatory Facilities: Adequate and convenient handwashing facilities
shall be provided, including warm water, soap and approved sanitary towels. The
use of a common towel is prohibited. No employee shall resume work after using
the toilet room without washing his or her hands.
   E.   Doors And Windows To Be Screened: All doors, windows and other openings
shall be properly screened from May 1 to October 31 of each year. Screen doors
shall be provided with self-closing devices. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd.
1996 Code)
2-4-6: RESTAURANT APPURTENANCES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Counters, Shelves, Show Cases And Windows: All show or display cases or
windows, counters or shelves used in keeping and displaying food and drink
shall be kept clean and sanitary, free from dust, dirt and other contaminating
material and in good repair. All food containers shall also be elevated at
least two feet (2') from the floor. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. 1996 Code)
   B.   Sinks: Sinks with an adequate supply of hot and cold running water of
safe sanitary quality shall be provided with metallic splash boards approved by
the Enforcement Officer. All sinks shall be constructed of nonabsorbent
material. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   C.   Traps For Fats, Oil, Grease, And Sand(s): Each restaurant, whether
existing or hereafter established within the Village, shall be required to have
installed on the licensed premises a trap for fats, oils, grease and sand(s)
which shall be installed in strict compliance with the then current plumbing
regulations of the Village. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   D.   Garbage Cans: Regulation watertight, properly covered refuse containers
for receiving and holding, without leakage, all garbage and other waste
material shall be provided. A tightfitting cover shall be provided for each can
and the cans shall be kept covered and elevated on a platform at least two feet
(2') high. All garbage and other waste material shall be removed from the
premises daily and shall not be allowed to become a nuisance.
   E.   Soiled Linen Containers: A special covered container shall be provided
for the storing of all soiled linen. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. 1996 Code)
2-4-7: EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Habits Of Employees: All persons handling food or drink shall be
sanitary in their habits, must wash their hands before beginning work and after
visiting the toilet. Individual soap and towels shall be provided for the
employees.
   B.   Wearing Apparel: All persons handling food shall wear clean, washable
outer garments and approved cloth head bands, hairnets or caps. Adequate
toilets, dressing rooms and lockers for each sex shall be provided for the
employees. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. 1996 Code)
   C.   Diseases:
      1.   Notice shall be sent to the Enforcement Officer and to the Lake
County Health Department immediately by the restaurant owner and/or manager or
by the employee concerned if any employee contracts any infectious, contagious
or communicable disease, or has a fever, a skin eruption, a cough lasting more
than three (3) weeks or any other suspicious symptom. It shall be the duty of
any such employee to notify the restaurant owner and/or manager immediately
when any of said conditions exist, and if neither the restaurant owner and/or
manager nor the employee concerned notifies the Enforcement Officer and the
Lake County Health Department immediately when any of such conditions exist,
they shall be held jointly and severally to have violated this section.
      2.   When it is suspected that there is a possibility of transmission of
infection from any restaurant employee, the Enforcement Officer is authorized
to require any or all of the following measures:
         a.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from working in any and
all restaurants within the Village;
         b.   The immediate closing of the restaurant concerned until no
further danger of disease outbreak exists, in the opinion of the Lake County
Health Department, and the Enforcement Officer shall be provided with written
confirmation of this determination;
         c.   Adequate medical examinations of the employee and his or her
associates, with such laboratory examinations as may be required by the Lake
County Health Department, and the Enforcement Officer shall be provided with
the written results of any such examinations. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
2-4-8: UTENSILS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Cleaning Of Utensils And Equipment:
      1.   All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks shall be kept clean and
free from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths used
by waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single-service containers
shall be used only once.
      2.   All multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly
cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process after
each usage. All multi-use utensils used in the preparation or serving of food
and drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process immediately following the day's operation. Drying cloths,
if used, shall be clean and shall be used for no other purpose.
   B.   Storage And Handling Of Utensils And Equipment: After bactericidal
treatment, no utensil shall be stored except in a clean, dry place protected
from flies, dust or other contamination and no utensil shall be handled except
in such a manner as to prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single-
service utensils shall be purchased only in sanitary containers, shall be
stored therein in a clean, dry place until used and shall be handled in a
sanitary manner.
   C.   Refrigerators: All refrigerators, iceboxes and other appurtenances
thereof used for the storage of food and drink shall be kept clean and sanitary
and in good repair and the compartments used for the storage of ice shall be
lined with some proper sanitary material so as to be watertight. No food shall
be placed directly on ice or ice coils. All readily perishable food or drink
shall be kept at or below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F), except when being
prepared or served. Wastewater from refrigeration equipment shall be disposed
of properly. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. 1996 Code)
   D.   Arrangement Of Stoves: All stoves, ranges, heaters and hot water tanks
shall be elevated and placed at least two feet (2') from walls to assure easy
access for cleaning. All stoves shall be equipped with proper ventilation by
suction or hood as approved by the Enforcement Officer, or his or her designee,
and by the Fire Protection District. (Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   E.   Steam Tables: All steam tables shall be maintained at a temperature of
at least one hundred fifty five degrees Fahrenheit (155°F) while containing
food and shall be cleaned daily.
   F.   Utensils Prohibited:
      1.   The use of any utensil used in the preparation, service and sale of
food or drink which is badly worn or rusted or the use of cracked dishes or
glassware in such a condition that it cannot be rendered clean and sanitary by
washing is prohibited.
      2.   Equipment or utensils made of crockery, pottery, porcelain,
enamelware or other material, the surface of which may become chipped or
otherwise damaged to such an extent that dirt, grease, verdigris or disease
germs may collect or stick to the damaged edges, or whose damaged edges chip or
become loose and get into food, or endanger life or health shall not be used
after such damage or break of the inside surface is present, but shall at once
be discarded or repaired.
   G.   Common Sugar Bowls: It shall be unlawful for any restaurant to place
for public use any open sugar bowl where sugar is available to all persons by
the use of a spoon. This subsection does not prohibit dispensers where the
sugar dispenser is enclosed by a top with a small hole and the sugar is
obtained by shaking or tipping the dispenser. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd.
1996 Code)
2-4-9: FOOD AND DRINK:
   A.   Wholesomeness Of Food And Drink: All food and drink shall be wholesome
and free from spoilage. All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream and other
frozen desserts served shall be from sources approved by the Enforcement
Officer. Milk and fluid milk products shall be served in the original
containers in which they were received from the distributor or from a bulk
container equipped with an approved dispensing device. This requirement shall
not apply to cream, which may be served from the original bottle or from a
dispenser approved for such service. All oysters, clams and mussels shall be
from approved sources. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968; amd. Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018)
   B.   Resale Of Handled Food: No hotel, restaurant, lunch counter or other
place where food is sold shall resell, for food, any food which has been sold
to or handled by any customer.
   C.   Storage And Display Of Food And Drink: All food and drink shall be so
stored and displayed as to be protected from dust, flies, vermin, unnecessary
handling, droplet infection, overhead leakage and other contamination. No
animals or fowl shall be kept or allowed in any room in which food or drink is
prepared and stored. All means necessary for the elimination of flies shall be
used. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968)
2-4-10: PROHIBITIONS AND PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unsanitary Rooms: No restaurant shall be conducted in a room or rooms
used for sleeping purposes or in any room or place that is dark, damp, poorly
ventilated or unsanitary.
   B.   Use Of Tobacco: The use of tobacco in any form is prohibited in rooms
in which food is prepared.
   C.   Disorderly Conduct: No restaurant licensee shall permit any person
under the influence of liquor to frequent the restaurant or permit any person
to engage in disorderly conduct or in any lewd or lascivious behavior in such
place of business.
   D.   Mobile food vendor(s), other than ice cream vendors, shall be and are
prohibited from parking on or from operating at a location on any public right
(s)-of-way or on any Village property, unless specifically permitted to do so
by a special event permit approved in writing in advance by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village, or by their designee. (Ord. 68-O-04, 10-1-1968;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-08, 7-11-2022)
CHAPTER 5
CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: Application For Certificate Of Registration Required For Transient
Merchant Or Itinerant Vendor; Restriction
2-5-3: Itinerant Vendors And Transient Merchants
2-5-4: Revocation Of Certificate
2-5-5: Trespassing
2-5-6: Failure To Leave After Notice
2-5-7: Mobile Food Vendors Prohibited
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
                                  Persons conducting any manner of door to
                                  door advocacy, including, but not limited
                                  to, those conducting any type of surveys
                                  and/or the distribution of any literature,
                                  handbills, or pamphlets, but excluding those
CANVASSERS:                       present as a result of a prior invitation
                                  from an owner or occupant of the premises,
                                  and any persons employed and on official
                                  business for the United States census
                                  bureau, and also excluding those rendering
                                  assistance or providing information of a
                                  bona fide emergency nature.
                                  As defined in Section
ICE CREAM VENDOR:                 2-4-1, "Definitions", of Chapter 4,
                                  "Restaurants and Mobile Vendors."
                                  Any person who transports tangible personal
                                  property for retail sale within the village
                                  who does not maintain in this state an
                                  established office, distribution house,
                                  sales house, warehouse, service center or
ITINERANT VENDOR:                 residence from which such business is
                                  conducted; provided, however, this term
                                  shall not include any person who delivers
                                  tangible personal property within the
                                  village who is fulfilling an order for such
                                  property which was solicited or placed by
                                  mail or other means.
                                  As defined in Section
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:               2-4-1, "Definitions", of Chapter 4,
                                  "Restaurants and Mobile Vendors."
                                  Selling or offering for sale, barter or
                                  exchange at retail any goods, wares,
                                  merchandise or services of any kind
                                  whatsoever by traveling from place to place
                                  along the streets of the village or from
                                  residence to residence therein, but shall
                                  not include solicitation or canvassing for
                                  orders for future delivery. "Peddling" may,
                                  in some instances, include the activities of
PEDDLING:                         an "itinerant vendor" or "transient
                                  merchant" as defined herein. If a peddler is
                                  also an "itinerant vendor" or "transient
                                  merchant" as defined herein, then those
                                  provisions shall also be applicable. To the
                                  extent that the provisions of this chapter
                                  relative to peddling are inconsistent with
                                  those relating to itinerant vendors and/or
                                  transient merchants, the more restrictive
                                  provisions shall apply.
                                  Any person who is a "transient merchant" or
REGISTERED TRANSIENT MERCHANT AND "itinerant vendor" as defined in this
REGISTERED ITINERANT VENDOR:      section and who has obtained and has in his
                                  or her possession a valid certificate of
                                  registration.
                                  Every separate living unit occupied for
RESIDENCE:                        residential purposes by one or more persons,
                                  contained within any type of building or
                                  structure.
                                  Any one or more of the following activities:
                                  seeking to sell or obtain orders for the
                                  purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
SOLICITING:                       foodstuffs, insurance, services of any kind,
                                  character or description, for any kind of
                                  consideration, whether for immediate or for
                                  future delivery.
                                  Any person who is engaged temporarily in the
                                  retail sale of goods, wares or merchandise
                                  in this village and who, for the purpose of
                                  conducting such business, occupies any
                                  building, room, vehicle, structure of any
                                  kind or vacant lot; provided, however, this
                                  term does not include any person selling
                                  goods, wares or merchandise which are
                                  raised, produced or manufactured by such
TRANSIENT MERCHANT:               person, to any person selling vegetables,
                                  fruit or perishable farm products at an
                                  established village market, to any person
                                  operating a store or refreshment stand at a
                                  resort, or to any person operating a stand
                                  or booth on or adjacent to property owned by
                                  such person or upon which such person
                                  resides. (Ord. 2002-O-08, 7-2-2002; amd.
                                  Ord. 2021-O-05, 3-2-2021; Ord. 2022-O-08, 7-
                                  11-2022)
 
2-5-2: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR TRANSIENT
MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR; RESTRICTION:
   A.   Certificate Of Registration Required; Restriction:
      1.   Retail Sales: A certificate of registration as hereinafter provided
shall be secured by every person desiring to engage in retail sales within this
village as a "transient merchant" or "itinerant vendor", as defined herein.
      2.   Hours Restricted: Selling by a registered transient merchant or
itinerant vendor is prohibited after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M.
   B.   Application For Certificate:
      1.   Information Requested: Application for a certificate of registration
shall be made upon a form provided by the village clerk and filed with such
village clerk, who shall forward such application to the village president for
his or her review pursuant to this chapter. The applicant shall truthfully
state in full the following information requested on the application:
         a.   Name and present residence address and length of residence at
such address, applicable business address if other than residence address which
must include street address, social security number, driver's license number,
if any;
         b.   Residence addresses, if any, during the past three (3) years if
other than present address;
         c.   Physical description of the applicant, including height, weight,
color of hair and color of eyes;
         d.   Name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed
or represents and the length of time of such employment or representation,
residence address of corporate officers and principal;
         e.   Location at which applicant intends to do business, nature of the
business, whether a certificate of registration under the retailers' occupation
tax act has been issued, a list of inventory the applicant intends to offer for
sale;
         f.   Name and address of all employers during the past three (3) years
if other than the present employer;
         g.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter
of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
         h.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
         i.   A list of all certificates of registration or licenses to conduct
business as transient merchant or itinerant vendor received or applied for
within this state for preceding twelve (12) months;
         j.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate in this village, if any;
         k.   Whether or not a certificate of registration issued to the
applicant under this chapter has ever been revoked;
         l.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating transient merchants or itinerant vendors; and
         m.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or
federal law of the United States.
      2.   Oath: All statements made by the applicant upon the application or
in connection therewith shall be under oath.
      3.   Photographic Identification: In connection with the application for
a certificate, the applicant shall submit to identification photographing.
      4.   Clerk's Record: The village clerk shall cause to be kept in his or
her office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon by
the village president together with all other information and data pertaining
thereto and all certificates of registration issued under the provisions of
this chapter and of the denial of applications. Applications for certificates
shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued
and any renewal thereof shall be identified with the duplicate number of the
application upon which it was issued.
      5.   Felony Or Ordinance Violation: Upon the filing of a complete and
accurate application, as provided herein, a certificate of registration shall
be issued by the village president or the village president's other designee
within thirty (30) days of application, except that no certificate shall be
issued to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal law of the
United States, within five (5) years of the date of the application; nor to any
ordinance of this village nor to any person whose certificate of registration
issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein provided.
      6.   Constitutional Rights: Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted
or enforced to deprive any person of any rights guaranteed under the
constitutions of the state of Illinois or the United States. (Ord. 2002-O-08,
7-2-2002)
2-5-3: ITINERANT VENDORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS:
   The applicant for an itinerant vendor's or transient merchant's certificate
of registration shall pay a fee upon application for a certificate of
registration as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. The village president or his or her designee shall
determine, based upon the application submitted, whether the applicant under
this chapter is a transient merchant or itinerant vendor. It shall be prima
facie evidence that a person is a transient merchant or itinerant vendor if the
person does not transact business from a fixed location or if the person does
not own or lease for a term of at least six (6) months the property from which
business is conducted. A certificate of registration shall issue to any
qualified applicant upon the posting of the appropriate bond or cash deposit as
follows:
   A.   Surety Bond: The applicant for a transient merchant's or itinerant
vendor's certificate shall file with the police department serving the village
a surety bond in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the wholesale value
of the merchandise that the applicant intends to offer for sale; however, the
amount of the bond shall not be less than as specified from time to time in
Section
1-10-7 of this Code.
   B.   Expiration Of Certificate: A certificate issued under this section
shall expire on December 31 of the year it was issued.
   C.   Sales Without Certificate: If any person makes retail sales as a
transient merchant or itinerant vendor without having obtained a certificate
under this chapter, the police department serving the village may hold the
inventory, truck or other personal property of the person until he obtains a
certificate to conduct business as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor. If
the property has been held by the police department serving the village for
more than sixty (60) days and the person whose property is being held has not
obtained a certificate under this chapter, the village may petition the circuit
court for an order for the sale of the property being held. If the court finds
that the person whose property is held has not obtained a certificate under
this chapter, the court may order the village to sell the property. The
proceeds of such sale, less reimbursement to the village of the reasonable
expenses of storage and sale of the property, shall become the property of the
village and shall be paid to the village treasurer.
   D.   Additional Requirements: It is a violation of this section for any
person, either as principal or agent, to conduct business as a transient
merchant or itinerant vendor in this village without first:
      1.   Complying with the applicable requirements of the retailers'
occupation tax act1; and
      2.   Obtaining a certificate of registration and posting such bond or
other approved security as required under this section.
(Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-2024)
2-5-4: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Disqualification: Any certificate of registration issued hereunder
shall be revoked by the village president if the holder of the certificate has
committed a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, has made a
false material statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified
for the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this
chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation: Immediately upon such revocation written notice
thereof shall be given by the village president to the holder of the
certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her
residence address set forth in the application.
   C.   Registration Null And Void: Immediately upon the giving of such notice
the certificate of registration shall become null and void. (Ord. 2002-O-08, 7-
2-2002)
2-5-5: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Notice By Owner: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any
property of another in this village after receiving, immediately prior to such
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden or to
remain upon the property of another after receiving notice from the owner or
occupant to depart.
   B.   Oral, Written Or Printed Notice: A person shall be deemed to have
received notice from the owner or occupant within the meaning of this section
if such person has been notified, personally, either orally or in writing or if
a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted
at the main entrance to said property or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   Posted Notice: The owner or occupant of any residence who desires to
forbid trespasses by canvassers, solicitors or peddlers may attach or exhibit
upon or near the main front door, and the main rear or side door (if any, and
if to be protected), a card or plaque stating such of the following as may be
appropriate, in letters at least one-third inch (1/3") in height:
   Canvassers, Solicitors and Peddlers Forbidden
The form of card provided for in this subsection shall not be deemed to be an
exclusive form of notice. (Ord. 2002-O-08, 7-2-2002)
2-5-6: FAILURE TO LEAVE AFTER NOTICE:
   A.   Any person canvassing, soliciting or peddling who is forbidden entry by
notice given in compliance with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
remaining on the property after receiving notice to depart if he shall ring the
doorbell or knock or create any sound calculated to attract the attention of
the occupant.
   B.   Notices exhibited pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed
applicable to and shall not prevent access to residential property by a
canvasser, solicitor or peddler who has received prior invitation, written or
oral, from the owner or occupant thereof. (Ord. 2002-O-08, 7-2-2002)
2-5-7: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS PROHIBITED:
Mobile food vendors, whether operating as a transient merchant or as an
itinerant vendor, or otherwise, are prohibited from operating within the
Village unless such mobile vendor is one of the following:
   A.   An ice cream vendor which is currently licensed by the Village;
   B.   The operations of such a mobile food vendor, whether a transient
merchant, an itinerant vendor, or otherwise, when located on a public right-of-
way or on other public property within the Village but only if such operations
have been specifically authorized by the Corporate Authorities of the Village
or by their designee, by a special event permit approved by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village and such mobile food vendor is currently licensed by
the Lake County Board of Health; or
   C.   The mobile food vendor is operating only on private property within the
Village pursuant to a written invitation from the owner of such private
property and is currently licensed by the Lake County Board of Health. (Ord.
2022-O-08, 7-11-2022)
CHAPTER 6
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Definitions
2-6-2: Massage Establishment License Required
2-6-3: Application For Massage Establishment License
2-6-4: Limitation And Restriction On Issuance And Renewal Of License
2-6-5: Review By The Village Administrator Of Denial Of An Application For A
License
2-6-6: Revocation Or Suspension Of Massage Establishment License
2-6-7: Facility Requirements
2-6-8: Operating Requirements
2-6-9: Manager On Premises
2-6-10: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
2-6-11: Hours Of Operation
2-6-12: Employment Of Massage Therapist
2-6-13: Display Of License
2-6-14: Inspection Of Massage Establishments
2-6-15: Name And Place Of Business
2-6-16: Transfer; Changes In Ownership Or Management
2-6-17: Exemptions
2-6-18: License Fee And Period Of License
2-6-19: Unlawful Acts
2-6-20: Public Nuisance
2-6-21: Violation And Penalty
2-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
LICENSE: A massage establishment license as provided in this chapter.
LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST: A person currently licensed under the Illinois
massage therapy licensing act 1 .
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external soft
parts of the body with the hands or with aid of any mechanical, electrical
apparatus or appliances or by the application of air, liquid, or vapor baths of
any kind with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar
preparations used in this practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of "massage" as defined in the massage
definition herein, and which has a fixed place of business where any person
engages in, or carries on, or permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the
activities or practices of "massage" as defined in this chapter.
OUTCALL MASSAGE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or carry
on massage at a location other than a licensed massage establishment.
PATRON: An individual who receives a massage under such circumstances that it
is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or give any other
consideration therefor.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of any form, kind or character
whatsoever.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of any
person, and the vulva and breasts of a female. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.
2-6-2: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on, or
permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the village, the business of operating a massage establishment without having
first obtained a valid and current license therefor issued by the village
pursuant to the terms of this chapter. A separate license shall be required for
each massage establishment location regardless of whether such multiple
establishments are operated by the same person. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-3: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a massage establishment license as required in
section
2-6-2 of this chapter shall be filed with the village clerk. The application
shall be made in writing upon a form provided by the village clerk and shall be
completed in full and signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent thereof, if not an individual, verified by oath or affidavit,
that all of the information in the application is complete, true and correct
and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, or otherwise.
      2.   The name under which the business is to be conducted.
      3.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license as well as all telephone numbers
where the business is to be operated.
         a.   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided. The
term of such lease must not end until after the expiration date of the license
for which application is being made.
         b.   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises, and, if
said premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of
the beneficial interest of a trust.
         c.   Whether any other activities or business will be conducted at the
same location and the physical facilities to be used.
      4.   In the case of an individual, the full name, home address with zip
code, social security number, date of birth, sex and a physical description of
the applicant including height, weight, color of hair and eyes.
      5.   In the case of a partnership, the full name, home address with zip
code, social security number, date of birth, sex and a physical description
including height, weight, color of hair and eyes of all partners (whether
general or limited) and any other persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof.
      6.   In the case of a corporation, the object for which organized, the
names, residence addresses with zip codes, date of birth, social security
number, sex and a physical description including height, weight, color of hair
and eyes of all officers, directors, and all persons owning directly or
beneficially any of the stock of such corporation and the persons acting as
managers or assistant managers or other persons principally in charge of the
operation of the business.
      7.   The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership, the date
of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date of becoming qualified
under the Illinois business corporation act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1.01 et seq., to transact business in Illinois if a foreign corporation.
      8.   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all licensed
massage therapists and of all other employees employed by the business and the
names and residence addresses of all managers, assistant managers or other
persons principally in charge of the operation of the business.
      9.   The business, occupation, employment of applicant, if an individual,
for three (3) years preceding the date of application.
      10.   Whether applicant ever made an application for a license under this
chapter, or a massage business license or similar license to a state or county,
city, village or other unit of local government, and if so, where and when, and
if such application was granted or denied, and if such application was denied,
the reasons for the denial.
      11.   Whether a license was ever issued to the applicant under this
chapter or a massage business license or similar license ever issued by any
state or county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and the
reasons for the suspension or revocation.
      12.   Whether the applicant has ever pled guilty or been found guilty of
a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of any
municipality or unit of government which regulates massage establishments or
the providing of massages, or any statute regulating massage establishments.
      13.   A complete statement of all instances in which the applicant has
pled guilty or has been found guilty under the laws of any state or under the
laws of the United States as provided in this section. If the applicant is a
corporation, the statement shall include all of the applicant's officers,
directors and managing agents, and any stockholders. If the applicant is a
partnership, such statement shall include all general partners and any limited
partner. Such listing shall include the following:
         a.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other
sex offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.
         b.   Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity.
         c.   Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct.
         d.   Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation, based upon
conduct or involvement in such related business activity or similar business
activity.
   B.   Except in the case of an application for a renewal of a license and
fingerprints are on file for all persons who are required to provide a complete
set of fingerprints, the applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints
with the application. If the applicant is a corporation, fingerprints must be
submitted for each officer, director, stockholder and managing agent of the
corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, fingerprints must be submitted
for each general and limited partner. If the applicant is a limited liability
company, fingerprints must be submitted for each general and limited partner
and managing partner. The owners, partners and principal managers of any other
legal entity entitled to do business in the state of Illinois shall also be
fingerprinted. The village may, in its sole discretion, either require the
applicant to have his fingerprints taken and submitted for processing by the
state of Illinois department of law enforcement state police and direct that
the results be sent directly to the village, care of the village clerk, or the
village may require that all such fingerprinting shall be done by the police
department serving the village. If the village does the fingerprinting then the
fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate state and/or federal
agencies for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid
by the applicant in addition to any application or license fee.
   C.   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the village, its
agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the
truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of
the applicant for a license.
   D.   The applicant shall submit a copy of identification which shall
include, but shall not be limited to, a driver's license, if any, and a social
security card and two (2) copies of a current portrait photograph of the
applicant at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2"). The portrait shall
include the head and shoulder area with the face forward pose. A new and
current portrait shall be required with each renewal application. If the
applicant is a corporation the identification and the portrait must be
submitted for each officer, director, stockholder and managing agent of the
corporation. The village, in its sole discretion, may require that any portrait
photograph required by these provisions be taken by the police department
serving the village. If the applicant is a partnership, the identification and
portrait must be submitted for each partner whether general or limited.
   E.   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the village clerk and/or the police
department serving the village shall deem necessary to determine the identity
of the applicant or to process the application. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-4: LIMITATION AND RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of a properly completed application including payment in full of
all fees in connection therewith for a massage establishment license, the
village clerk may submit the completed application to the police department
serving the village for evaluation. Upon receiving the application for a
massage establishment license, the police department serving the village shall
conduct an investigation.
In the case of an application for a massage establishment license, the village
clerk shall cause and the applicant shall permit the premises to be licensed to
be inspected by or on behalf of the applicable fire department, the building
and zoning officer, the appropriate health officer and any other applicable
department or inspector to assure that the proposed operation complies with all
applicable laws, including building, electrical, plumbing, health, housing,
zoning, and fire codes of the village and any other regulations of the village
relating to the public health, safety and welfare. The appropriate departments
and/or inspectors shall inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a
massage establishment, make an investigation of the application and make
written recommendations to the village clerk concerning compliance with village
codes and federal or state laws.
Within forty five (45) days of the date that a fully completed application,
including payment of all fees therefor is filed, the village clerk shall issue
a license if all of the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, or
the village clerk shall notify the applicant in writing that the application
has been denied or is held for further review. The period of such additional
review shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed
to by the applicant. Upon the conclusion of such additional review, the village
clerk shall advise the applicant in writing whether the application is granted
or denied. The license shall be denied if the applicant fails to comply with
the requirements of this chapter or with the requirements of any other
provision of this code which is applicable to the business and/or activities of
the applicant.
   A.   No massage establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
      1.   An applicant who has pled guilty to or has been found guilty of any
one or more of the following offenses:
         a.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other
sex offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.
         b.   Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, within the past ten (10) years.
         c.   Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct,
within the past five (5) years.
         d.   Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation by any state or
other unit of local government based upon conduct or involvement in such
related business activity or similar business activity, within the past five
(5) years of the date of the application including, but not limited to, the
denial, suspension or revocation of such a similar license by any state or
other unit of local government within five (5) years of the date of the
application.
      2.   An applicant whose license issued under this chapter has been
revoked for cause or the applicant has pled guilty to or has been found guilty
of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
      3.   An applicant who at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      4.   An applicant under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
      5.   An applicant who has failed to submit a complete application and who
has failed to cure the defect(s) within ten (10) days after written notice of
any such failure to cure.
      6.   An applicant who has been convicted of any other criminal offense
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within five (5) years of
the date of the application.
   B.   In addition to the provisions in subsection A of this section, no
massage establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
      1.   An applicant whose place of business is conducted by a manager
unless the manager possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee.
      2.   An applicant who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      3.   A partnership, if any general partners thereof, or any limited
partner owning any interest in such partnership has pled guilty to or has been
found guilty of any one or more of the offenses listed in this chapter.
      4.   A corporation, if any officer or director, or any stockholders
owning any of the stock of such corporation has pled guilty to or has been
found guilty of any one or more of the offenses listed in this chapter.
      5.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois business
corporation act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1.01 et seq., to transact
business in Illinois.
      6.   An applicant, if the premises in which the massage establishment is
to be operated shall not be in compliance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, zoning, building, and
life safety codes. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-5: REVIEW BY THE VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR OF DENIAL OF AN APPLICATION FOR A
LICENSE:
The denial by the village clerk to issue a license pursuant to an application
made therefor shall be subject to review by the village administrator provided
that a request for such review is made in writing by the applicant to the
village administrator within ten (10) days of the issuance of the written
denial of the application. The village administrator shall conduct a hearing to
review the application submitted to the village by the applicant and/or any
other reports of inspections made and of any other relevant facts and evidence
determined. The applicant may present any relevant evidence in support of his
request that the denial of the application be reviewed and reversed. The
village administrator shall determine whether the denial of the application
shall be affirmed or whether the denial shall be reversed and the application
approved. If the village administrator reverses the decision and approves the
application, the license applied for shall be issued. The decision of the
village administrator to affirm the denial of the application shall be final
and subject to judicial review only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the
extent otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-6: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be suspended for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days by the village administrator upon written
notice to the license holder, which notice shall state a basis or charge. The
notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by regular U.S. mail,
addressed to the licensee at the address of the licensed premises and shall be
deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service date") and by delivering a
copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed premises or to any other
employee on the licensed premises. The license holder may request in writing a
hearing before the village administrator within ten (10) days of the service
date. If a written request for a hearing is not made within ten (10) days of
the service date, the village administrator may suspend any license for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days for any of the reasons hereinafter set
forth in the provisions of this chapter. Upon receiving a timely written
request therefor, the village administrator shall conduct the hearing and may
suspend a license for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days if any of
the provisions of this chapter are violated or any employee of the licensee,
including a licensed massage therapist, is engaged in any conduct at licensee's
place of business which violates any of the provisions of this chapter or any
other ordinances of the village relating to the license, the licensed premises,
or any state law, or where any applicant has committed any fraud,
misrepresentation or made a false statement on an application for a license
under this chapter or in any case where the licensee refuses to permit any duly
authorized police officer of the police department serving the village or
inspector of the village to inspect the premises or the operations therein, or
the failure or refusal of the licensee to pay any fine, penalty or charge owed
to the village, or in the event that the licensee would not now qualify for the
issuance of a license or the renewal thereof. The licensee shall be deemed to
have actual or constructive knowledge of any violations hereinabove set forth
if they occur on the licensed premises by any person(s) acting as an agent or
otherwise receiving compensation. Such license may also be suspended by the
village administrator upon the recommendations of the health officer that such
business is being managed, conducted, or maintained without regard for the
public health or health of patrons or without due regard to proper sanitation
or hygiene. The licensee shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence
bearing on the alleged violations set forth in the notice.
Any decision of the village administrator to suspend a license may be appealed
to the village president by the licensee by a request in writing therefor made
to the village president within ten (10) days of the issuance by the village
administrator of any order of suspension. The village president shall review
the record of the hearing held before the village administrator if any was held
or if no hearing was held, the basis for such order of suspension, and based
upon such review shall make a decision to either affirm or reverse the decision
of the village administrator to suspend the license. If the village president
decides to affirm the decision to suspend the license, he may also modify the
term of the suspension provided that in no event shall the suspension exceed
thirty (30) days. Any suspension ordered by the provisions hereof shall be
stayed until all administrative appeals made to officials of the village as
provided herein (and not including any appeal of a decision of a village
official made to any court of competent jurisdiction) have been concluded. The
decision of the village president shall be final and subject to judicial review
only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the extent otherwise provided by
law.
   B.   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be revoked by the
village administrator for any of the reasons set forth in subsection A of this
section upon written notice to the license holder, which notice shall state a
basis or charge. The notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by
regular U.S. mail, addressed to the licensee at the address of the licensed
premises and shall be deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service date")
and by delivering a copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed premises
or to any other employee on the licensed premises. Within ten (10) days of the
service date, the licensee may request a hearing before the village
administrator. If a written request for a hearing is not made within ten (10)
days of the service date, the village administrator shall determine whether or
not to revoke any license as hereinafter provided. Upon receiving a timely
request made therefor, the village administrator shall conduct a hearing. The
licensee shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence bearing on the
alleged violations set forth in the notice. After the hearing, the village
administrator shall render a decision whether or not to revoke the license
holder's license.
   C.   The village administrator may revoke a license for any of the reasons
set forth in subsection A of this section and shall revoke a license if he or
she determines that any one or more of the following have occurred:
      1.   A licensee has violated or is not in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and the license has been suspended within the preceding twenty
four (24) months.
      2.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
      3.   A licensee knowingly conducted massage activities in the village
during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
      4.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twenty four (24) month period,
a person or persons committed a violation of the provisions of this chapter
which substantially occurred in or on a licensed premises, and the person or
persons were employees of the licensee at the time the violations were
committed.
      5.   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, bestiality, prostitution, or
flagellation to occur in or on the licensed premises.
      6.   There is no licensed massage therapist employed by the licensee or
otherwise engaged or committed to provide massage services on the licensed
premises.
      7.   A licensee does not now qualify for the issuance of a license or the
renewal thereof.
   D.   Any decision of the village administrator to revoke a license may be
appealed to the village president by the licensee by a request in writing
therefor made to the village president within ten (10) days of the issuance by
the village administrator of any order to revoke a license. The village
president shall review the record of the hearing held before the village
administrator, if any was held, or if no hearing was held, the basis for such
order to revoke and based upon such review shall make a decision to either
affirm or reverse the decision of the village administrator to revoke the
license. Any order to revoke a license shall be stayed until all administrative
appeals made to officials of the village as provided herein (and not including
any appeal of a decision of a village official made to any court of competent
jurisdiction) have been concluded. The decision of the village president shall
be final and subject to judicial review only by a court of competent
jurisdiction to the extent otherwise provided by law.
   E.   Any licensee whose license has been revoked is barred from applying for
a new license for a minimum period of one year from the date of revocation.
   F.   Any suspension or revocation of the license, if ordered, shall not
preclude prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the
violation of other applicable provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of
the village. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-7: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the village reveals that the establishment complies with each of
the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made waterproof with approved waterproofed materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the village building code. Plumbing fixtures shall
be installed in accordance with the village plumbing code.
      1.   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have waterproof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the village.
      2.   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. (Exception: Dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.)
      3.   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   B.   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   C.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
   D.   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. At a
minimum, a single unisex water closet shall be provided in an establishment
when less than twenty (20) (in the aggregate) employees and patrons of
different sexes are reasonably calculated to be on the premises at the same
time. When twenty (20) or more (in the aggregate) employees and patrons of
different sexes are reasonably calculated to be on the premises at the same
time the following shall be applicable:
Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each twenty (20) or more employees or
patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted
for water closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be
designated as to the sex accommodated therein.
   E.   Adequate dressing or locker facilities shall be provided for the
patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female patrons
are to be served simultaneously, segregated dressing, locker and massage room
facilities shall be provided.
   F.   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories or
washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
   G.   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the village electrical code.
   H.   The massage establishment premises shall be in compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to,
zoning, building and life safety codes. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-8: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective patrons.
   C.   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be clean and shall
be fully covered by wearing clean, nontransparent outer garments, completely
covering the sexual and genital areas.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   E.   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed, published or
distributed any advertisement, picture, or statement which is known or through
the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false, deceptive or
misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize any massage
services.
   F.   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted. Animals except
seeing eye dogs shall not be permitted in the massage work areas.
   G.   The sexual or genital areas of patrons shall be completely covered at
all times when in the presence of an employee of the massage establishment or
any massage therapist.
   H.   No massage therapist or massage establishment employee or agent shall
administer a massage to any part of a patron's body which exhibits a skin
fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a physician
duly licensed in the state of Illinois has certified in writing, that such
patron may safely be massaged on that area and prescribing the conditions
thereof.
   I.   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running water
with proper disinfectant before administering a massage to each patron.
   J.   No massage establishment licensee under the provisions of this chapter
shall knowingly permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises
who commits any act of public indecency or obscenity as provided in this code
or as provided in the Illinois criminal code.
   K.   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that bulk containers are not contaminated between
clients.
   L.   Each massage establishment shall operate in compliance with all
applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations, including, but not
limited to, any such laws and regulations relating to discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, gender, disability or age. (Ord. 2005-
O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-9: MANAGER ON PREMISES:
At all times during the hours of operation of a massage establishment there
shall be present a manager or other employee of the licensee, and a licensed
massage therapist, each of whom shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of
age. A licensed massage therapist may also serve as a manager. (Ord. 2005-O-08,
3-1-2005)
2-6-10: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep, or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage establishment and no massage establishment shall be located on any
premises for which a license to sell alcoholic liquor has been issued. (Ord.
2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-11: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No massage establishment shall be open for business or in operation between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 2005-O-
08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-12: EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGE THERAPIST:
No person shall employ as a massage therapist any person unless said person is
a licensed massage therapist who has obtained and has in effect a valid license
issued by the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-13: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The massage establishment's business license and the massage therapist license
of each and every licensed massage therapist employed in the massage
establishment, shall be displayed in an open and conspicuous place in the
premises to be licensed. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-14: INSPECTION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed massage establishment are provided for or required by
this chapter, or any ordinance of the village or are reasonably necessary to
assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the
village, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee
or the person in charge of the premises to admit thereto for the purpose of
making the inspection any officer or employee of the village who is duly
authorized to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission
or entry is requested. Each such inspection shall be made at reasonable times
and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to fail to
allow such inspection officer(s) access to the premises or to hinder such
officer(s) in any manner. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-15: NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS:
No person granted a license hereunder shall operate the massage establishment
under a name not specified in the license, nor shall the business be conducted
under any different designation or at any location not specified in the massage
establishment license. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-16: TRANSFER; CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP OR MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be applicable only to
the specific licensee and location designated, and may not be sold,
transferred, or otherwise assigned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
licensee remains the same and a request is made to designate and substitute a
different location, the village clerk may approve such new location upon
submission of proof that such location is in compliance with all of the
provisions of this chapter. A fee as specified from time to time in section 
1-10-7 of this code shall be required for processing a request to change the
location of the massage establishment.
   B.   A transfer in the ownership or control of a massage establishment shall
constitute a change in the licensee and the existing license shall be deemed
surrendered and extinguished. A new application for such license shall be filed
and processed as provided in this chapter prior to such transfer taking effect.
Any transfer in the ownership or control of a massage establishment in
violation of this chapter shall constitute the operation of an unlicensed
massage establishment.
   C.   Notice shall be provided prior to any change of the designated manager
conducting business for the massage establishment licensee. The new manager
must be qualified to operate the massage establishment as provided in this
chapter. The licensee shall, not less than ten (10) business days before such
change is to take effect, give the village clerk notice of such change. The
notice shall include any information concerning the new manager which is
required in this chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
2-6-17: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply and no license shall be
required for any units of government, hospitals, nursing homes, and sanitariums
or for any individual while engaged in the personal performance of their
respective professions provided such individual is holding an unrevoked
certificate to practice the healing arts under the laws of the state of
Illinois (including, but not limited to, physicians, surgeons, chiropractors,
osteopaths, physical therapists, nurses, paramedics, state of Illinois
registered athletic licensees who administer athletic related massages in the
normal course of training duties) or to those working under the direction of
any such individuals in any such units of government, hospitals, nursing homes
and sanitariums.
   B.   No license shall be required for any barber, beautician or
cosmetologist lawfully carrying on their respective businesses to the extent
authorized under a valid unrevoked license or certificate of registration
issued by the state of Illinois. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this exemption
is only intended to permit normal and customary barber, beautician or
cosmetologist services which involve incidental physical contact, such as hair,
scalp and neck rubs and facials which would otherwise qualify as a massage.
This exemption is not intended to, and does not permit massage activities as
part of any barber, beautician or cosmetologist business beyond that authorized
by their respective state license or certification. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-18: LICENSE FEE AND PERIOD OF LICENSE:
   A.   The fee for the original application for a massage establishment shall
be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code for each renewal application. All fees shall be paid at the
time each application is submitted to the village. No application shall be
processed without the payment in full of the applicable fees even if the
application is made for a period of less than a full year.
   B.   Commencing with May 1, 1998, each license year shall commence on May 1
of each year and shall expire on April 30 of the following year unless an
application is submitted after May 1 for any year (but before April 30 in the
following year) in which case the license shall commence when issued but shall
expire on April 30 following the date of issuance. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
2-6-19: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment, to
knowingly place his or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or
her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage, a sexual or genital area or
part of any other person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment, to
expose his or her sexual or genital parts, or any portion thereof, to any other
individual. It shall also be unlawful for any individual, in a massage
establishment to expose the sexual or genital parts, or any portions thereof,
of any other individual.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any individual, while in the presence of any
other individual in a massage establishment, to fail to conceal with a fully
opaque covering, the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any individual owning, operating or managing a
massage establishment, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about such
massage establishment any agent, employee, or any other individual under his
control or supervision to perform any such acts deemed to be unlawful by the
provisions in subsection A, B or C of this section.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any licensed massage therapist or other
employee of a massage establishment to administer a massage on an outcall basis
as defined in this chapter. Only a licensed massage therapist shall be
permitted to administer a massage and then only solely within an establishment
licensed to carry on such business under this chapter.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any licensed massage therapist, employee or
operator to perform, offer to perform, or agree to perform any act which would
require a touching of a patron's genital or sexual area.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person who holds a license to operate a
massage establishment or a massage therapist license within the village to fail
to comply with any of the conditions and regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-20: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any location used as a massage establishment in violation of this chapter is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 2005-O-08, 3-1-2005)
2-6-21: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by this
chapter whether acting as an individual owner, employee of the owner, operator
or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere agent or independent
contractor for the owner, employee or operator, or acting as a participant or
worker in any way directly or indirectly who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment or provides any of the services defined in this chapter
without first obtaining a license and paying the required fee to do so from the
village or who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon a finding of guilty such person shall be punished by fine
(s) and other penalties as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code, and if the court deems it appropriate, by imprisonment for
a period which shall not exceed six (6) months. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or upon which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 7
AMUSEMENT TAX
SECTION:
2-7-1: Definitions
2-7-2: Scope; License Required
2-7-3: Tax Imposed
2-7-4: Books And Records
2-7-5: Bond Required
2-7-6: Time For Payment
2-7-7: Revocation Of License
2-7-8: Penalty
2-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMUSEMENT(S): Any of the following when carried on or operated for gain by any
person or entity: a) All athletic contests, events or exhibitions; b)
exhibitions, shows, including, but not limited to, theatricals, movies, and
other cinematic events offered to the public in the village; or c) any facility
used for any of the foregoing.
AMUSEMENT FACILITY: Any facilities used for any amusement and operated for
gain.
FACILITY USER FEES: Any and all payments received for the privilege of using
any amusement facility.
OPERATED FOR GAIN OR CARRIED ON FOR GAIN: As used in this chapter shall
include, but not be limited to, both paid admission transactions, i.e., an
individual patron, whether as a spectator or as a participant, who pays a fee
or surrenders evidence of prepayment for the privilege of admission to any such
amusement as well as any transactions where any person, entity, group, or
organization pays a facility user fee for the privilege of using an athletic,
exhibition, theatrical, or other amusement facility.
PAID ADMISSION: An individual patron who pays a fee or surrenders evidence of
prepayment for the privilege of admission to an amusement or an amusement
facility. (Ord. 99-O-21, 11-2-1999)
2-7-2: SCOPE; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   The amusement tax provided for in this chapter shall apply to any of
the following when carried on for gain: 1) all athletic contests and events or
exhibitions; 2) exhibitions, shows, including, but not limited to, theatricals,
movies, and other cinematic events offered to the public in the village; or 3)
any facility used for any of the foregoing.
   B.   Any person or entity operating for gain an amusement or amusement
facility shall obtain and maintain a current amusement license from the village
clerk. The license year for an amusement license shall be May 1 through April
30 of the following year. (Ord. 99-O-21, 11-2-1999)
2-7-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Any person or entity operating any amusement or any amusement facility
in the village shall pay to the village, as an amusement tax, an amount equal
to three percent (3%) of all gross revenue derived therefrom as paid admissions
or as facility user fees.
   B.   This amusement tax shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other
license fees required by this code. (Ord. 99-O-21, 11-2-1999)
2-7-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Accurate books and records shall at all times be kept and maintained by the
amusement licensee showing the paid admission tickets received, any prepaid
certificates presented on each day, all facility user fees, and the attendance
at such amusement or amusement facility. The duly authorized representative or
representatives of the village shall at all reasonable times have access to the
amusement admission and usage records of any licensee for the purpose of
examining and checking the same and ascertaining whether or not the proper
amount of amusement tax has been or is being paid to the village as herein
provided. (Ord. 99-O-21, 11-2-1999)
2-7-5: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   In the event the licensee shall have a license to operate an amusement
or an amusement facility on a temporary basis, then the licensee shall provide
a bond executed by the licensee as principal and by a surety acceptable to the
village, said bond to guarantee the payment of the tax imposed hereby and to be
in an amount sufficient to cover the estimated tax which shall become due by
virtue of the operation of the amusement or the amusement facility, but in an
amount not less than as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
   B.   A "temporary license" is hereby defined as a license issued for a
period other than the normal license year. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
2-7-6: TIME FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   The amusement tax provided for in this chapter shall be due and payable
to the village on or before the last day of the month ("due date") following
any month during which the amusement or the amusement facility is operated and
shall be accompanied by a return in the form provided by the village clerk. The
licensee shall supply, at the time of payment, a report showing all paid
admissions received, any prepaid certificates presented on each day of
operation, and the attendance for which the tax provided herein is being paid,
and all facility user fees applicable (whether prepaid or received during the
period) for the month in question. All payments and reports required herein
shall be delivered to the office of the village clerk.
   B.   If for any reason any tax is not paid on the due date, and such
nonpayment continues for ten (10) days after written notice to licensee, a
penalty at the rate of two percent (2%) per month on the amount of tax which
remains unpaid, accruing from the due date, shall be added and collected.
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided and after
expiration of the applicable cure period, upon the request of the village
president, the village attorney shall bring or cause to be brought an action to
enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the village in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 99-O-21, 11-2-1999)
2-7-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Failing or refusing to pay the amount due as herein provided may result in the
revocation of an amusement license issued under this chapter. (Ord. 99-O-21,
11-2-1999)
2-7-8: PENALTY:
Any amusement licensee failing or refusing to file the necessary return, who
makes a fraudulent return or who fails to pay the amount found to be due as
herein provided or any person or entity who otherwise violates this chapter
shall, upon a finding of guilty, be punished by fine(s) and other penalties as
specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code in addition to the amount of the tax and any interest due
from such person or entity as may be liable in a civil action as herein
provided. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day a person or
entity fails to obtain an amusement license when it is required by this
chapter, when any person or entity fails or refuses to pay the amusement tax
due as herein provided, or when a person or entity otherwise violates this
chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 8
HOTEL AND MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
2-8-1: Definitions
2-8-2: Tax Imposed; Liability For Payment; Addition To Other Taxes; Collection
2-8-3: Responsibility Of Owner To Keep Daily Records; Right Of Village To
Inspect
2-8-4: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
2-8-5: Action To Enforce Payment
2-8-6: Disposition Of Proceeds From Tax And Fines
2-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
HOTEL ROOM OR MOTEL ROOM: A room within a structure offered for rental on a
daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental
with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or
motel room. The number of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed
on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the rental of such
hotel or motel room.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other representatives,
acting either for himself or for any other person in any capacity, or any other
entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine,
feminine, singular or plural is included in any circumstances. (Ord. 2002-O-09,
7-2-2002)
2-8-2: TAX IMPOSED; LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT; ADDITION TO OTHER TAXES; COLLECTION:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of five percent (5%) of the
rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room with
the village of Lake Barrington for each twenty four (24) hour period or any
portion thereof for which a daily room charge is made; provided, however, that
the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person who rents a hotel or
motel room for more than thirty (30) consecutive days or to a person who works
and lives in the same hotel or motel.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of any liability for payment of said tax is to
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, said person hereinafter referred to as "rentor".
   C.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure said tax from the rentor of the hotel or motel room and to pay over to
the village treasurer said tax under procedures prescribed by the village
treasurer, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   D.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall
secure said tax from the rentor at the time he collects the rental payment for
the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the rent given to the rentor at the time of payment,
the amount due under the tax provided in this chapter shall be stated
separately on said documents. (Ord. 2002-O-09, 7-2-2002)
2-8-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO KEEP DAILY RECORDS; RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO
INSPECT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the village clerk, or his deputy or representative,
authorized by him or her, shall at all times have full access, which records
shall include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the twenty four
(24) hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel room where such
shall occur; and
      2.   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
   B.   The village treasurer, or any person certified by him as his deputy or
representative, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and
examination of books and records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this chapter and to assure the enforcement of the collection
of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the village clerk or his or her duly authorized deputy or
representative in the discharge of his or her duties in the performance of this
chapter. (Ord. 2002-O-09, 7-2-2002)
2-8-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
   A.   Filing Returns: The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within
the village shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect
to each hotel and motel room during each month upon forms prescribed by the
village clerk. The return shall be due on or before the last day of the
succeeding calendar month and the return shall indicate for what period the
return is to be filed, e.g., return for January receipts is due on or before
the last day of February. At the time of filing said tax returns, the owner
shall pay to the village clerk all taxes due for the period for which the tax
return applies.
   B.   First Taxing Period: The first taxing period for the purpose of this
chapter shall commence on August 1, 2002, and the tax return and payment for
such period shall be due on or before September 30, 2002.
   C.   Late Penalty: If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty
at the rate of one percent (1%) per month on the amount of the unpaid tax which
remains unpaid shall be added and collected.
   D.   Confidentiality; Disclosure: Except as provided in this section, all
information received by the village treasurer from return filed under this
chapter, or from any investigation conducted under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be confidential, except for official purposes with the village
staff or pursuant to official procedures for collection of any state tax or
enforcement of any civil or criminal penalty or sanction imposed by this
chapter. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the village treasurer
from publishing or making available to the public the names and addresses of
persons filing returns under this chapter and the number of rooms covered in
said return, or from publishing or making available reasonable statistics
concerning the operation of the tax wherein the contents of returns are grouped
into aggregates in such a way that the information contained in any individual
return shall not be disclosed. The village treasurer may also make available to
the secretary of treasury of the United States, or his representative, for
exclusively official purposes, information received by the village treasurer in
the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 2002-O-09, 7-2-2002)
2-8-5: ACTION TO ENFORCE PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the village
attorney shall, upon the request of the village treasurer, bring or cause to be
brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax in behalf of the village
in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2002-O-09, 7-2-2002)
2-8-6: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS FROM TAX AND FINES:
All of the remaining proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under
this chapter, including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the
village. (Ord. 2002-O-09, 7-2-2002)
CHAPTER 9
RAFFLES
SECTION:
2-9-1: Definitions
2-9-2: Qualifications
2-9-3: Application
2-9-4: Regulations Governing Licensee
2-9-5: License Fees
2-9-6: Administration
2-9-7: Enforcement; Penalties
2-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title and future amendments thereto, certain terms and
words are hereby defined. The following words, terms and phrases used in this
chapter shall have the meanings specified below:
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
OTHER: Unless the context otherwise requires, all words and phrases used herein
shall have the same meaning as the same or similar words or phrases defined and
used in the state law and in the raffles act 1  in particular.
RAFFLE LICENSING AGENT: Raffle licensing agent for the village of Lake
Barrington is the village clerk.
STATE LAW: Whenever reference herein is made to "state law" it shall mean and
refer to an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois, entitled "an
act to provide for licensing and regulating certain games of chance and
amending certain acts herein named", approved August 5, 1981, commonly known as
and sometimes referred to herein as the "raffles act 2 ", as amended. (Ord.
2005-O-18, 7-5-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
2-9-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   A license to operate a raffle shall be issued only to bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans'
organizations, that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before
making application for a license and which have had during the entire five (5)
year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives.
   B.   No license shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2 or B3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or
in which a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which such a person defined in subsection B1, B2
or B3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated
or not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as described by state law. (Ord. 2005-O-18, 7-5-2005)
2-9-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Information: Application forms shall be furnished by the
raffle licensing agent and filed with same. Said applications shall show the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      3.   Place and date of chartering or incorporation of applicant, if
applicable;
      4.   Name, address, telephone number, social security number and date of
birth of presiding officer, secretary, and raffle manager of applicant;
      5.   The area or areas in which raffle tickets will be sold;
      6.   A list of prizes and the retail of each prize to be awarded in a
single raffle; and
      7.   The price to be charged for each ticket sold.
   B.   Statement Of Accuracy: The license application shall contain a sworn
statement attesting to the accuracy of the information provided and to the not
for profit character of the prospective licensee. Said statement shall be
signed by the presiding officer, secretary, and raffle manager of that
prospective licensee.
   C.   Application Valid For One Raffle Or A Specific Number Within A
Specified Period: An application for a license under this chapter is valid for
one raffle only or for a specified number of raffles to be conducted during a
specified period not to exceed one year, and such license may be suspended or
revoked for any violation of this chapter or of the raffles act.
   D.   Exception: Any raffle in which the aggregate value of the prizes is
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be considered automatically
licensed without necessity of an application. (Ord. 2005-O-18, 7-5-2005)
2-9-4: REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSEE:
   A.   Conduct Of Raffles: The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the licensee permitted to conduct that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area or areas
specified on the license.
      5.   Winning chances must be determined only at the time, date, and
location specified on the license.
      6.   Any person selling raffle chances must carry a copy of the license
issued for the raffle.
   B.   Raffle Limits:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed the amount of the fidelity bond
specified in subsection C of this section.
      2.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
      3.   The license shall not be valid for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
   C.   Raffle Manager And Bond:
      1.   All operation and conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single person who shall be designated as the raffle manager of the
applicant on the license application.
      2.   An applicant's raffle manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum
of the aggregate retail value of the prizes as set out on the application. The
bond shall be in favor of the licensed organization conditioned upon the raffle
manager's honesty in the performance of his or her duties. Said bond shall
provide that notice shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not
less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation period. However, the
requirement for such a fidelity bond may be waived by a unanimous vote of the
members of the licensed organization.
   D.   Records:
      1.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the licensee (including bingo gross receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same licensee pursuant to license
issued by the department of revenue of the state), and placed in a separate
account. Each organization shall have separate records of its raffles. The
person who accounts for gross receipts and expenses from the operation of
raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
organization.
      2.   Each licensee shall keep records of gross receipts, expenses, and
net proceeds for each single raffle at which winning chances are determined.
All reasonable operating expenses deducted from gross receipts for each single
raffle shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
      3.   Each licensee, within thirty (30) days of the raffle, shall report
to its membership and to the raffle licensing agent each of the following:
         a.   Gross receipts generated by the conducting of the raffle;
         b.   An itemized list of all reasonable operating expenses which have
been deducted from the gross receipts;
         c.   Net proceeds from the conducting of the raffle;
         d.   An itemized list of the distribution of the net proceeds; and
         e.   A list of prize winners.
      4.   Records required by this section shall be present for three (3)
years, and the organization shall make available for public inspection their
records relating to the operation of a raffle at reasonable times and places.
   E.   Gambling Prohibited: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
authorize the conducting or operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise,
activity, or device other than raffles as provided by state law. (Ord. 2005-O-
18, 7-5-2005)
2-9-5: LICENSE FEES:
The following fees for any license as may be required by this chapter shall be
as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code and shall be payable to the village of Lake Barrington.
(Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
2-9-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The raffle licensing agent shall be charged with the administration of
this chapter.
   B.   The authority and jurisdiction of the village to issue a license to a
prospective licensee shall extend only to corporate limits of the village.
   C.   The raffle licensing agent shall act upon a license application within
ten (10) days from the date of the application.
   D.   The village president and the village clerk may enter into a written
contract with one or more municipalities which have adopted a raffle ordinance
consistent with this chapter to jointly establish a system for the licensing of
organizations to operate raffles within the corporate limits of any
municipality that is a party of such contract. Such contract shall be
consistent with the limitations of this chapter except that a license issued by
one government unit shall be valid throughout the jurisdiction of all parties
to the contract. (Ord. 2005-O-18, 7-5-2005)
2-9-7: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties: Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter shall constitute a violation. Whoever violates any of the provisions of
this chapter is subject to a fine as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   B.   Prevention Of Unlawful Raffles: The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the state's attorney or village attorney from
instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful raffles or to restrain,
correct, or abate a violation of this chapter or of the conditions of a raffle
license issued pursuant hereto. (Ord. 2005-O-18, 7-5-2005)
CHAPTER 10
MUNICIPAL GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-10-1: Definitions
2-10-2: Tax Imposed
2-10-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-10-4: Tax Is Additional
2-10-5: Determination And Implementation Of Tax
2-10-6: Return Filed; Payment Of Tax
2-10-7: Credit Issued
2-10-8: Limitations On Collection Of Tax
2-10-9: Penalties
2-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the
case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever; provided, however,
that "gross receipts" shall not include any amounts specifically excluded from
the definition of gross receipts in section
8-11-2(d) of the Illinois municipal code.
PERSONS: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of the state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-
2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the business of distributing,
supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the village and not for resale, at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any person selling
gas be subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.1. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use
of its streets, or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereupon, or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment
used in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013,
eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-5: DETERMINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF TAX:
The tax provided for in this chapter shall be based on the "gross receipts", as
herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after
September 1, 2013. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-6: RETURN FILED; PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   On or before October 31, 2013, each taxpayer shall make a return to the
village administrator, or his designee, for the month of September 2013,
stating:
      1.   His name;
      2.   His principal place of business;
      3.   His gross receipts during the month upon the basis of which the tax
is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities of the village or the village administrator, or his designee, may
require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the village for the corresponding prior one month
period.
   C.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed,
provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord.
2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-7: CREDIT ISSUED:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 2013-O-08,
8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-8: LIMITATIONS ON COLLECTION OF TAX:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-10-9: PENALTIES:
Every person convicted of a violation of this chapter for failing to make a
return, or for making a fraudulent return, or for wilfully violating any other
provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
In addition to the fine herein set forth, such person shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due and unpaid. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013,
eff. 9-1-2013)
CHAPTER 11
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-11-1: Definitions
2-11-2: Tax Imposed
2-11-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-11-4: Tax Is Additional
2-11-5: Compliance With Other Laws
2-11-6: Implementation Of Tax
2-11-7: Collection Of Tax
2-11-8: Tax Remittance And Return
2-11-9: Books And Records
2-11-10: Credits And Refunds
2-11-11: Penalties
2-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the tax authorized by this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivision, any state
university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3-105 of the
public utilities act and shall include telecommunications carriers as defined
in section 13-202 of that act and alternate retail electric suppliers as
defined in section 16-102 of that act.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-
2013)
2-11-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and any and all other applicable
authority, a tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In A Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
First 2,000                                0.555
Next 48,000                                0.364
Next 50,000                                0.327
Next 400,000                               0.318
Next 500,000                               0.309
Next 2,000,000                             0.291
Next 2,000,000                             0.286
Next 5,000,000                             0.282
Next 10,000,000                            0.277
All in excess of 20,000,000                0.273
 
(Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   Reselling: Electricity that is delivered to a person in the village
shall be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the
person receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the
village administrator, or his designee, and furnishes that number to the person
who delivers the electricity, and certifies to that person that the sale is
either entirely or partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      1.   Application For Resale Number; Issuance: If a person who receives
electricity in the village claims to be an authorized reseller of electricity,
such person shall apply to the village administrator, or his designee, for a
resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will show the village why
such applicant is not liable for the tax imposed by this chapter on any of such
purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the
village may reasonably require. Upon approval of the application, the village
administrator, or his designee, shall assign a resale number to the applicant
and shall certify the number to the applicant.
      2.   Cancellation Of Resale Number: The village administrator, or his
designee, may cancel any resale number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to obtain electricity used or consumed by
such person tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no
longer applies because such person has discontinued making resales.
      3.   Partial Resale: If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for
use or consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax
imposed by this chapter directly to the village pursuant to subsection 2-11-8B
of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section
2-11-7 of this chapter and remit the tax pursuant to subsection 2-11-8A of this
chapter on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller to a purchaser.
Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active resale
number and complying with all other conditions of this chapter shall be excused
from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller; provided that such person reports to the village
administrator, or his designee, the total amount of electricity delivered to
the reseller, and such other information that the village administrator, or his
designee, may reasonably require. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
This tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures imposed
by the village, the state, or any other political subdivision of the state.
(Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
or statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-6: IMPLEMENTATION OF TAX:
   A.   Residential Customers: The tax imposed by this chapter with respect to
the use or consumption of electricity by residential customers shall begin with
the first bill issued on or after September 1, 2013.
   B.   Nonresidential Customers: The tax imposed by this chapter with respect
to the use or consumption of electricity by nonresidential customers shall
begin with the first bill issued to such customers for delivery services in
accordance with section 16-104 of the public utilities act, or the first bill
issued to such customers on or after September 1, 2013, whichever issuance
occurs sooner. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-7: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of section
2-11-3 of this chapter regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this chapter shall be collected from the purchaser by the
person maintaining a place of business in the state who delivers electricity to
the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person
who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid is recoverable in
the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected by this chapter and any such tax which
is collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to
the village by the person delivering the electricity, provided that the person
delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible; and provided further that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the village upon request. For purposes of this section, any partial payment
not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the
delivery of electricity. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect
the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the village. Persons delivering electricity who file returns
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall, at the time of filing such
return, pay the village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-8: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis make and file a tax return
in a form prescribed by the village administrator, or his designee. The tax
return shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the month
during which the tax is collected or is required to be collected under section
2-11-7 of this chapter. The tax collectors filing returns pursuant to this
chapter shall at the time of filing such return pay the village the amount of
the tax imposed by this chapter.
   B.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under section
2-11-3 of this chapter, then the purchaser shall file a tax return in a form
prescribed by the village administrator, or his designee, and pay the tax
directly to the village on or before the last day of the month following the
month during which the electricity is used or consumed. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-
2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-9: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
chapter shall keep accurate books and records of the business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this chapter. The
books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection at all times
during business hours of the day. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-10: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this chapter unless such person
files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the
tax was paid. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013, eff. 9-1-2013)
2-11-11: PENALTIES:
Every person convicted of a violation of this chapter for failing to make a
return, or for making a fraudulent return, or for wilfully violating any other
provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
In addition to the fine herein set forth, such person shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due and unpaid. (Ord. 2013-O-08, 8-6-2013,
eff. 9-1-2013)
CHAPTER 12
CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEES AND CONSUMER
PROTECTION
SECTION:
2-12-1: Definitions
2-12-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
2-12-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
2-12-4: Applicable Principles
2-12-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
2-12-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
2-12-7: Late Fees/Payments
2-12-8: Cable And Video Customer Protection Law
2-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2007-O-
23, 11-6-2007)
2-12-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
2-12-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to section
2-12-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be one percent (1%) of the holder's gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village.
   C.   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the village
or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The holder's
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in subsection 2-12-2D of this chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
2-12-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
2-12-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2007-O-23,
11-6-2007)
2-12-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
2-12-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by the
provisions of this code adopted by this village pursuant to the local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq., title 1, chapter 12 of this code. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
2-12-8: CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the cable and video
customer protection law 1  authorizing a village to enforce all of the customer
service and privacy protection standards of said section.
   B.   Purpose: The village desires to enforce the customer service and
privacy protection standards with respect to complaints received from residents
as provided by the cable and video customer protection law.
   C.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
   D.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   E.   Enforcement: The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent
to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards of the
cable and video protection law with respect to complaints received from
residents within the village.
   F.   Penalties: The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
70-501(r)(1), does hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material
breach of the cable and video protection law by cable or video providers in
addition to the penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall
apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material
breach per customer.
      1.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
      2.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
      3.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection F2 of this
section.
   G.   Customer Credits: The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer
credits for violations. Those credits shall be as provided for in the
provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s) and applied on the
statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle following the
violation or following the discovery of the violation. The cable or video
provider is responsible for providing the credits and the customer is under no
obligation to request the credit.
   H.   Effective Date: The provisions of this section shall not take effect
until January 1, 2008, as to incumbent cable operators, but otherwise it shall
be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as required by law.
   I.   Violation; Penalty: Except as specifically provided in this chapter,
any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per offense, and each day a violation has existed or continues to
exist shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/70-501.
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Dumping Of Litter
3-1-3: Accumulation Of Litter Prohibited
3-1-4: Abandonment Of Motor Vehicle; Presumption
3-1-5: Litter Receptacles
3-1-6: Litter Removal, Notice
3-1-7: Penalties; Enforcement
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LITTER: Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. Litter may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste; newspapers, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging, construction material,
abandoned vehicle 1 , motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to
injure any person or create a traffic hazard or anything else of an unsightly
or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed
of improperly.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Has the same meaning as in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
146.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal entity or
their legal representative, agent or assigns. (Ord. 82-O-01, 1-16-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined in 625 ILCS 5/4-100.
3-1-2: DUMPING OF LITTER:
   A.   Prohibited; Exemptions: No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw,
discard, leave, cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing,
discarding or leaving of litter upon any public or private property in the
municipality or upon or into any river, lake, pond or other stream or body of
water in the municipality unless:
      1.   The property has been designated by the village or any of its
agencies for the disposal of litter and the litter is disposed of on that
property in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state
pollution control board.
      2.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter.
      3.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance or a fire hazard.
      4.   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days.
      5.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened and removes and properly
disposes of any litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
   B.   From Motor Vehicles; Private Use Of Public Receptacles: No person shall
dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of litter from any
motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or private property or
upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water in the village
except as permitted under subsection A above, nor shall any person transport,
by any means, garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of
business, farm or other site to and deposit the material in, around or on top
of trash barrels or other receptacles placed along public highways or at
roadside rest areas. Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped
from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is
created that the operator of that motor vehicle has violated this subsection
but that presumption may be rebutted. (Ord. 82-O-01, 1-16-1982)
3-1-3: ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED:
No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person. (Ord. 82-O-01, 1-16-1982)
3-1-4: ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE; PRESUMPTION:
No person shall abandon a motor vehicle on any highway, on any public property
or on any private property of which such person is not the owner or tenant in
lawful possession in the Village. The person to whom last was issued the
certificate of title to the vehicle by the Secretary of State is presumed to be
the person to have abandoned that vehicle, but this presumption may be
rebutted. (Ord. 82-O-01, 1-16-1982; 1996 Code)
3-1-5: LITTER RECEPTACLES:
   A.   For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
      1.   "Property held out to the public for the transaction of business"
includes, but is not limited to, commercially operated parks, campgrounds,
drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business parking lots, car
washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas, industrial parking
lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and bathing areas,
airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping malls.
      2.   "Property held out to the public for assemblage, recreation or as a
public way" includes, but is not limited to, any property that is publicly
owned or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition of "property
held out to the public for the transaction of business", but excludes State
highway rights of way and rest areas located thereon.
   B.   The owner or person in control of any property, which is held out to
the public as a place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation
or as a public way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the
deposit of litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the
needs of the numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
(Ord. 82-O-01, 1-16-1982; amd. Ord. 90-O-12, 5-1-1990)
3-1-6: LITTER REMOVAL, NOTICE:
   A.   Notice To Owner Or Tenant To Remove: The owner or tenant in control of
lands lying within the limits of the Village is hereby required to remove or
cause to be removed from such lands any litter within ten (10) days after
receipt by such owner or tenant in control of written notice from the Village.
   B.   Service And Contents Of Notice: Notice to the owner or tenant to cause
the removal of the litter may be served upon any such owner or tenant either
personally or by registered or certified mail; and, if by the latter method,
the ten (10) day period within which such removal shall be accomplished shall
be deemed to have commenced to run from the date of the return receipt of such
registered or certified mail obtained by the postal authority for the delivery
of such notice. In addition to requiring the removal of aforesaid, every such
notice shall warn the owner or tenant of the lands to which such notice refers
that failure to accomplish such removal within the time stated therein will
result in the Village providing for its removal and the cost of such removal
shall be charged to the owner or tenant of such lands and shall be payable
within thirty (30) days after the date of submission of the charges.
   C.   Failure To Obey Notice: Whenever the owner or tenant of such lands,
receiving the notice provided for, shall fail, refuse or neglect, within the
time prescribed in the notice, to effect removal of such litter, such removal
may be accomplished by or at the direction of the Village. The cost of such
removal to the Village shall be charged against the owner or tenant, as the
case may be.
   D.   Lien: When the owner is in control of lands, the costs of removal is a
lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all subsequent liens and
encumbrances, except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after
such cost and expense is incurred, the village, or person performing the
service by authority of the village, in his, her or its own name, files notice
of lien in the office of the recorder of deeds in Lake County. The notice shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out as follows:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
However, the lien of the village shall not be held valid as to any purchaser
whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to the removal
and prior to the filing of such notice, and the lien of the village shall not
be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in
and to such real estate arise prior to the filing of such notice. Upon payment
of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in such property
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village
or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of
record as in the case of filing notice of lien. (Ord. 82-O-01, 1-16-1982; amd.
1996 Code)
3-1-7: PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT:
Persons who violate this chapter are subject to the penalties set out in this
section.
   A.   Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction of any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty offense hereunder and shall be punished by fine(s) and other
penalties as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation occurs or is permitted to continue
shall be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction of violating any provision of this chapter or of failing to comply
with any requirement thereof shall, in addition to the fine(s) and other
penalties provided, be obligated to reimburse the village for its attorney fees
to the extent permitted by law, court costs, court reporter costs, expert
witness fees and all other out of pocket costs incurred by the village in the
prosecution of said violation or violations.
   C.   In addition to any fine(s) and other penalties imposed hereunder, the
court may order that the person convicted of a violation remove and properly
dispose of the litter, and may employ special bailiffs to supervise the removal
and disposal, or the village may employ contractors to remove and properly
dispose of the litter, and the court shall tax any such costs against the
person so convicted and against the property.
   D.   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to, and not in
lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred herein or by law. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 2
RECYCLING CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Exclusive Contract Required
3-2-3: Compliance With Exclusive Refuse, Recycling, And Yard Waste Contract
Required
3-2-4: Recycling Program Established
3-2-5: Placing Refuse, Compostables And Recyclables For Pick Up; Time
Limitation
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATOR: The Village President or his or her designee authorized to
administer the agreement for the Village.
APPROVED CONTAINERS: Containers to be used for the pick up of compostable
materials shall be biodegradable landscape waste bags ("kraft" type) with a
prepaid sticker affixed to each such bag. Recycling containers shall be used
for the pick up of recyclable materials. Approved containers for garbage shall
be thirty two (32) gallon capacity bags, metal or plastic cans or similar
containers.
COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL OR COMPOSTABLES: Grass, garden clippings and leaves,
branches and sticks, provided that all such materials are placed in
biodegradable paper landscape waste bags ("kraft" type) with a prepaid sticker
attached thereto as hereinafter described and not commingled with "garbage" or
recyclable materials as herein defined, and further provided, that branches and
sticks shall be tied in bundles not exceeding three feet (3') in any dimension
and a prepaid sticker shall be affixed to each such bundle.
CURBSIDE: The approved point of collection which shall be within five feet (5')
of the edge of the paved street.
CURBSIDE RECYCLING: An organized program sponsored by the Village resulting in
residents within the corporate limits separating recyclable and compostable
materials and placing them curbside or at the designated trash collection point
to be collected by the Village or the Village's exclusive private contractor.
GARBAGE: All household and kitchen wastes, such as discarded food or food
residues and paper necessarily used for wrapping same, books, boxes and
cartons, providing all such materials are placed in suitable containers and not
left in piles on the ground and small amounts of sod, earth and rocks, provided
the last three (3) items listed are put in suitable containers of reasonable
movable weight. It shall also include "do it yourself" home remodeling and
repair construction materials, and not commercial remodeling and construction
materials, provided such items are put in suitable containers or bundles of
reasonably movable weight.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL(S): Aluminum cans, tin and/or steel cans, plastic milk jugs
(HDPE), colored plastic laundry detergent bottles (HDPE #2), two liter (2 L)
pop bottles (PET), newspaper, glass bottles/containers and/or other materials
specified by the Administrator.
RECYCLING CONTAINERS: The container provided by the Village to residents for
the specific purpose of storing recyclable materials on site and for placing
those materials curbside for collection. Exact size, shape and color of said
container may vary from time to time, however, recycling containers will be
clearly marked for use as a recycling container only. (Ord. 90-O-06, 3-6-1990;
amd. Ord. 90-O-14, 6-19-1990; Ord. 93-O-07, 3-2-1993)
3-2-2: EXCLUSIVE CONTRACT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the enterprise of collecting, transporting,
processing, storing or disposing of garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse,
recyclables, compostables and/or solid waste of any kind from any residence or
dwelling, or multi-family residential development within the corporate limits
of the Village, as said limits exist from time to time, without first having
secured an exclusive contract with the Village for such purposes, consistent
with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, landscape contractors
employed by any multi-family residential development within the Village shall
be obligated to dispose of the landscape waste generated or collected by their
own activities in such development at an Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency approved site outside of the corporate limits of the Village. (Ord. 93-
O-07, 3-2-1993)
3-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH EXCLUSIVE REFUSE, RECYCLING, AND YARD WASTE CONTRACT
REQUIRED:
All residents within the Village shall comply with all applicable provisions of
that certain exclusive contract for refuse and recycling which is titled,
"Municipal Solid Waste, Recycling and Yard Waste Agreement between the Village
of Lake Barrington and LRS, which shall be effective for a five (5) year term
beginning October 1, 2023 and ending September 30, 2028, and any extensions or
amendments thereto, as the Village's current exclusive franchise for refuse and
recycling services. Such contract, as well as any extensions and amendments
thereto, are on file with the Village Clerk and are hereby made part of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 2018-O-08, 4-3-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-O-21, 8-10-2023)
3-2-4: RECYCLING PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Program Established: There is hereby established a Villagewide
residential recycling program to be operated by the Village and the Village's
exclusive private contract to provide for the separation of certain designated
recyclable and compostable material from normal household refuse for placement
in specially designated containers. The respective approved containers for
recyclables and compostables shall be used only for the purpose of storing such
materials on site and for the placement of those materials curbside or in the
designated trash collection pick up point on the designated collection day.
   B.   Recycling Containers Ownership; Use; Theft: The Village will provide
specially labeled recycling containers to each household participating in the
recycling program and the Village shall maintain ownership of such containers.
However, each household will be responsible for the normal and reasonable care
of the container in their possession. The Village will provide replacement
containers to households when it is determined by the Village that replacement
due to normal wear and tear is warranted. Abuse, theft and misuse of the
containers is prohibited and shall constitute a violation of this chapter
subjecting the violator to the penalties as hereinafter provided.
   C.   Placement And Storage Of Recycling Containers: Recycling containers
shall be stored on the residential premises in conformance with the provisions
of this chapter and may be placed at the designated location for collection
only during the times specified in this chapter.
   D.   Unauthorized Removal Of Recyclable And Compostable Materials
Prohibited: The initial curbside recycling program will provide for the
separation of recyclables and compostables from normal household refuse for
placement in the respective approved containers and collection from the normal
collection point on the regular designated pick up day. The Village may, from
time to time, alter the definition of recyclables and compostables to be
separated from the household waste stream and include those materials in the
recycling program. Once recyclables and compostables have been placed in or
along side the container and set at the curb or other designated collection
location, such materials become the property of the Village and the contract
hauler and it shall be unlawful for any other persons to move, remove or tamper
with recyclables or compostables and each such act of moving, removing and/or
tampering from one or more locations in violation hereof shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense punishable hereinafter provided.
   E.   Separation Of Recyclables And Compostables And Placement For Removal:
Recyclables and compostables shall be prepared and separated from garbage and
such garbage, recyclables and compostables shall be placed in "approved
containers" as defined by this chapter and shall be collected by the Village's
exclusive private contractor; provided, however, branches and sticks shall be
tied in bundles not exceeding three feet (3') in any dimension and a prepaid
sticker shall be affixed to each such bundle. Recyclables and compostables
shall be placed at the curbside to be collected at times designated by the
village.
   F.   Additions: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Any person may donate recyclable and compostable materials to any
other person whether operating for profit or not for profit; and
      2.   Any person may maintain his or her own compost pile or site so long
as such site or pile neither constitutes a nuisance to surrounding property
owners nor endangers the public health and/or safety. (Ord. 93-O-07, 3-2-1993;
amd. 1996 Code)
3-2-5: PLACING REFUSE, COMPOSTABLES AND RECYCLABLES FOR PICK UP; TIME
LIMITATION:
No garbage, recyclables and/or compostables, or any refuse, whether or not in
the proper container, shall be placed on any portion of any public or private
road, street or alley or within twenty five feet (25') thereof, earlier than
twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled time and date for the pick up of
such garbage, recyclables and/or compostables for said premises; and any
garbage, recyclables and/or compostables placed earlier than as aforesaid is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Such a nuisance may be abated at the
direction of the village president and the removal of such nuisance shall be at
the expense of the owners and residents of the premises in question who shall
be jointly liable. (Ord. 93-O-07, 3-2-1993)
CHAPTER 3
SHORT TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Short Term Rentals Restricted
3-3-4: Penalties
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect and preserve the quiet enjoyment of
residential properties and neighborhoods within the village and to mitigate
and/or eliminate adverse secondary effects the village and its residents have
experienced by reason of short term rental(s) of certain residential structure
(s) in the village, including, but not limited to, gatherings by attendees who
have little connection to or consideration for the neighborhoods or neighbors,
which gatherings have been characterized by excessive noise, overcrowded
parking, and most recently, suspected criminal activity. (Ord. 2016-O-08, 4-13-
2016)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following phrases shall have the definitions
as set forth below:
 
                   All or part of a principal structure or accessory structure
RENTAL PREMISES:   being rented or otherwise let to person(s) other than the
                   owner of the subject property.
                   The accessory use and/or occupancy for a period of less than
                   three (3) months of a principal structure or accessory
                   structure pursuant to a written or oral agreement which
                   permits and/or provides for occupancy of all or part of such
                   structure by any person other than the owner thereof, or an
                   immediate family member of the owner thereof, and whether or
                   not the permission of such occupancy is in exchange for
                   consideration therefor. Notwithstanding anything contained
                   in this definition to the contrary, a short-term rental
                   shall not include any of the following: (1) any occupancy of
                   a residence by an immediate family member; (2) any occupancy
                   of a residence by a person who is present in such residence
                   as a caregiver for or to provide companionship, safety, and/
                   or security for a person who is living on the same premises
SHORT TERM RENTAL: and who has been found by the Social Security Administration
                   or by any agency or department of the State of Illinois to
                   be disabled and such disability continues, regardless of
                   whether or not the owner(s) of the residence or the disabled
                   person receive(s) any rent or other compensation from such
                   person; (3) one or more than one consecutive lease extension
                   (s) of any length immediately following any lease between
                   the same parties where the original lease did not fall
                   within the definition of a "short-term rental"; or (4) any
                   occupancy by person(s) who were former owner(s) and/or
                   former occupant(s) of a residence and who are holding over
                   and retaining possession of such residence for an agreed
                   upon period of time after the closing of the sale of such
                   residence. (Ord. 2016-O-08, 4-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-O-16,
                   12-6-2022)
 
3-3-3: SHORT TERM RENTALS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided herein, leasing, renting, offering or
inviting the leasing or renting, or otherwise permitting the short term rental
and/or occupancy of any dwelling and/or accessory structure located within the
village for less than three (3) consecutive months at a time shall be
prohibited, with the exception of a hotel or similar establishment duly
licensed by the village, and such conduct shall be prohibited, whether engaged
in or participated in by the owner(s) of the property, one or more agent(s) of
the property owner(s), and/or by any person(s) leasing, or seeking to lease as
a lessor(s), or renting or seeking to rent as lessee(s) and/or otherwise occupy
a premises as tenant(s) and/or temporary occupant(s) thereof.
   B.   The term of any lease or occupancy agreement which has satisfied the
minimum term required by this section may be extended on a month to month basis
on the condition that the tenant(s) remain(s) the same.
   C.   Dwellings shall not be leased, or otherwise permitted to be occupied by
other than the same tenant, more than two (2) times during any consecutive
twelve (12) month period unless the rental agreement therefor has been
terminated by reason of a tenant default.
   D.   The restrictions of this chapter shall be applicable whether the rental
premises comprise(s) all or a part of the principal structure, or all or part
of any accessory structure.
   E.   Whether or not consideration is exchanged for the lease and/or rental
of a premises shall not affect the fact that the occupancy thereof is treated
as a short term rental for the purposes of this chapter if the definition
thereof is otherwise applicable to such activity.
   F.   The property owner shall remain responsible for compliance with all
applicable provisions of this code and/or the village zoning ordinance during
the term of any rental and/or occupancy agreement and/or during the term of any
occupancy of the rental premises by persons other than the property owner.
   G.   No temporary structure shall be permitted to be used for a short term
rental.
   H.   The prohibition on short term rentals as herein provided shall not
apply when the immediately preceding owner of a property maintains possession
of the dwelling unit after closing on a real estate transaction for the sale
thereof and leases said property back from the successor owner for a period of
time pursuant to a written agreement.
   I.   Each day a principal structure or any accessory structure in the
village is offered for rent as a short term rental, is leased or rented as a
short term rental, and/or each day a principal structure or any accessory
structure is occupied as a "short term rental", as that term is defined herein,
shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-O-08, 4-13-
2016)
3-3-4: PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding anything otherwise provided in this code to the contrary, any
person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a mandatory fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day,
nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per day. Each day a principal
structure or any accessory structure is offered for rent as a short term
rental, is leased or rented as a short term rental, and/or each day a principal
structure or any accessory structure is occupied as a short term rental shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter. Without any limitation on the
foregoing, each day a violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be a
separate offense, and each such offense shall be subject to not less than the
minimum mandatory daily fine. (Ord. 2016-O-08, 4-13-2016)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Responsibility For Minors
4-1-3: General Offenses Enumerated
4-1-3-1: Missiles; Harmful Items On Streets
4-1-3-2: Hunting
4-1-3-3: Illegal Advertising
4-1-3-4: Multiple-Family Occupancy Of Single-Family Buildings
4-1-3-5: Mobile And Temporary Living Conditions Prohibited
4-1-3-6: Reserved
4-1-3-7: Curfew
4-1-3-8: Fireworks
4-1-3-9: Possession And Use Of Cannabis
4-1-4: Offenses Against The Peace
4-1-4-1: Assault, Battery, Fighting
4-1-4-2: Disorderly Conduct
4-1-4-3: Mendicants And Vagrants
4-1-4-4: Disturbing Assemblages
4-1-4-5: Unlawful Assemblages
4-1-4-6: Discharging Firearms
4-1-4-7: Transmission Of Obscene Messages Prohibited
4-1-4-8: Telephone Harassment
4-1-4-9: Possession Of Weapons By Persons Under Eighteen Years Of Age
4-1-5: Offenses Against Authority
4-1-5-1: False Alarms, Calls Or Reports
4-1-5-2: Resisting Or Obstructing Officer, Employee
4-1-5-3: Obstructing Service Of Process
4-1-5-4: Impersonating Officers, Employees
4-1-5-5: Refusing To Aid An Officer
4-1-5-6: Resisting Arrest, Use Of Force
4-1-6: Offenses Against Property
4-1-6-1: Theft Of Property Under One Hundred Fifty Dollars In Value
4-1-6-2: Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property Under One Hundred Fifty Dollars In
Value
4-1-6-3: Theft Of Labor As Services Or Use Of Property Under One Hundred Fifty
Dollars In Value
4-1-6-4: Deceptive Practices
4-1-6-5: Defacing Advertising
4-1-6-6: Posting Bills Without Consent
4-1-6-7: Criminal Damage To Property
4-1-6-8: Criminal Trespass To Vehicles
4-1-6-9: Criminal Trespass To Land
4-1-6-10: Criminal Damage To Public Property
4-1-6-11: Criminal Trespass To Public Property
4-1-6-12: Operation Of Motor Vehicles Upon Private Property
4-1-7: Offenses Against Morals
4-1-7-1: Indecent Conduct
4-1-7-2: Obscenity
4-1-8: Liquor Regulations
4-1-8-1: General Alcohol Regulation
4-1-8-2: Happy Hour Restricted
4-1-9: Coin Operated Amusement Devices
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR/BEVERAGES: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale, or other liquid
containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which
is fit for beverage purposes.
GUARDIAN: See definition of Legal Guardian.
KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by a
circuit court of this state but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act.
PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
RECKLESSLY: Acting in a manner or under circumstances such as evince disregard
of, or indifference to, consequences involving danger to the property, life or
safety of others.
UNDERAGE PERSON/MINOR: As defined in each Section.
UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years still under
the care and custody of his or her parents.
UNSUPERVISED: A lack of visual or oral oversight coupled with lack of
sufficient proximity to obtain immediate control over the item or minor.
WILFUL: Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion of the
will. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody of, a minor by a
circuit court of the State, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years but not yet eighteen
(18) years of age.
   B.   Liability Of Parent Or Legal Guardian Of Minor Offender: The parent or
legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who has custody of such minor shall be
liable for any fine, condition or restitution or reparation imposed by a court
upon a minor for a violation of any provision of any ordinance of the Village
Code; provided, the minor has not paid the fine or made restitution or
reparation within the time ordered by the court; and further provided, that
said parent or guardian has been served with summons or notice to appear in the
original cause as provided by law.
   C.   Liability For Damages To Persons Or Property: In the absence of
evidence to the contrary, the parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be presumed to have
failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and said minor shall be
deemed to have acted with the knowledge and permission of the parent or
guardian in violation of this Section whenever such minor shall:
      1.   Be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting willful or malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or
      2.   Have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another governmental agency
resulting from an admission of guilt or violation of any ordinance, law or
statute which prohibits willful or malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property. However, said parent or legal guardian shall first receive from the
Village Police Department a written notice following said minor's adjudication
or nonjudicial sanction, by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by person service with a certificate of such service, and the
acts of said minor in violation of any ordinance, law or statute prohibiting
wilful or malicious acts causing injury to a person or property which cause
such presumption of failure to exercise proper parental responsibility shall
have occurred within one year following receipt of said written notice.
Any person violating the provision of this Section including any parent who has
failed to exercise proper parental responsibility as provided in this Section
shall pay the actual damages resulting therefrom, but not exceeding any limit
provided by section 5 of "An act to authority recovery of damages from parents
or legal guardians due to the willful injury to person or property by minor
children", in addition to such fines as otherwise provided by this Chapter.
   D.   Parental Responsibility In General: It shall be unlawful for any person
including a parent or legal guardian, to knowingly or wilfully cause, aid or
encourage any unemancipated minor to violate or attempt to violate any Federal
or State law or Municipal ordinance or to knowingly or wilfully act in such a
manner as to directly tend or cause a child to violate or attempt to violate
any Federal or State law or Municipal ordinance. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3: GENERAL OFFENSES ENUMERATED:
4-1-3-1: MISSILES; HARMFUL ITEMS ON STREETS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any
street, road, highway or other public place in the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails, tacks or
other similar articles on any street, road, highway or other public place in
the village. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3-2: HUNTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing or to hunt any animal
in the village except as authorized by law to protect the public safety. (Ord.
94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3-3: ILLEGAL ADVERTISING:
It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article in the
village. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3-4: MULTIPLE-FAMILY OCCUPANCY OF SINGLE-FAMILY BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful to use for multiple-family occupancy, any building
constructed as a single-family building, unless such building is in full
compliance with all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances of the village relating to the construction of new multiple-family
buildings before being used for occupancy by more than one family. (Ord. 94-O-
18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3-5: MOBILE AND TEMPORARY LIVING CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No mobile home, camper, land cruiser, house trailer, nor any motor
vehicle or trailer designed or used for living purposes, shall be used or
parked for camping or living purposes on any public right of way anywhere in
the village.
   B.   Camping overnight is hereby prohibited on vacant lots within the
village. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3-6: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2013-O-12, 9-3-2013)
4-1-3-7: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions Generally: It is unlawful for any person
within the corporate boundaries of the village who is less than seventeen (17)
years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway at the following times unless the person is: 1) accompanied
by the child's parent or guardian; 2) accompanied by a person at least eighteen
(18) years of age with the written approval by the child's parent or guardian;
3) participating in, going to, or returning by the most direct route from: a)
lawful employment, occupation which the laws of the state authorize a person
less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform, b) an activity sanctioned by
his or her school, c) a religious event, d) an emergency involving the
protection of a person or property from an imminent threat of serious bodily
injury or substantial damage, e) an activity involving the exercise of the
child's rights protected under the first amendment to the United States
constitution or the constitution of the state of Illinois, or both, such as
freedom of speech and the right of assembly, or f) an activity conducted by a
nonprofit or governmental entity that provides recreation, education, training,
or other care under the supervision of one or more adults; or 4) engaged in
interstate or international travel from a location outside Illinois to another
location outside Illinois:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M., Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M., Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sunday to Thursday, inclusive,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
   B.   School Hours:
      1.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen
(18) who is enrolled in any public, private or parochial elementary or
secondary school to be present in or upon any public place, street, building,
or assembly, other than school, during any hours when his or her school is in
session during the regular school term, unless he or she is:
         a.   Traveling to or from school by the most direct route; or
         b.   Engaged in an activity sanctioned by his or her school; or
         c.   Engaged in personal business, including, but not limited to,
employment, medical care, educational and/or religious activities, with prior
notice to school authorities from a parent or legal guardian; or
         d.   Participating in, going to, or returning by the most direct route
from: 1) an activity sanctioned by his or her school, 2) a religious event, 3)
an emergency involving the protection of a person or property from an imminent
threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage, 4) an activity involving
the exercise of the child's rights protected under the first amendment to the
United States constitution or the constitution of the state of Illinois, or
both, such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         e.   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Illinois to another location outside Illinois.
      2.   Penalties:
         a.   If a person between the age of ten (10) years old and the age of
eighteen (18) years violates this subsection B, such offense shall be
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense and/or
community service, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second or any
subsequent offense and/or community service.
         b.   If a person under the age of ten (10) years old violates this
subsection B, the parent, legal guardian, or other person having custody or
control of such person shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the first offense and/or community service, and one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for a second or any subsequent offense and/or community service.
      3.   Detainment: A police officer may stop and detain a person whom the
officer reasonably suspects to be violating this subsection B for not to exceed
fifteen (15) minutes for the purpose of verifying the person's identity, age,
school enrollment, and authority to be absent from school. The police officer
shall immediately inform the person of the reason for the detention and that he
or she will be released upon verification of authorization to be absent from
school. The person shall not be removed from the scene of the investigatory
detention unless he or she refuses to provide the officer with the necessary
information.
      4.   Notice: A person violating this section shall, if practical, be
taken to school authorities or a parent or legal guardian, and may be issued a
notice to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Parental/Guardian Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent,
legal guardian, or other person having custody or control of any person subject
to this section to knowingly permit such person to violate this section. (Ord.
2007-O-03, 2-6-2007)
4-1-3-8: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and
shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons, in which explosives are used, the
type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, bombs, or other fireworks
of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive compound, or
any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, or containing
combustible substances producing visual effects; provided, however, that the
term fireworks shall not include snake or glowworm pellets; smoke devices;
trick noisemakers known as party poppers, booby traps, snappers, trick matches,
cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five
hundredths (0.25) grain or less of explosive compound are used, providing they
are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in
place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain
less than twenty hundredths (0.20) grain of explosive mixture; the same and use
of which shall be permitted at all times.
   B.   Sale Or Use:
      1.   Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for
any person to knowingly possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at
retail, or use or explode any fireworks.
      2.   Public Displays:
         a.   Rules And Regulations: The president and board of trustees shall
have power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the granting of
permits for supervised public displays of fireworks.
         b.   Application Forms: Forms for such application and permit may be
obtained from the office of the state fire marshal.
         c.   Time Of Application: Application for permits shall be made in
writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the display and
action shall be taken on such application within forty eight (48) hours after
such application is made.
         d.   Supervision; Location: Every such display shall be handled by a
competent individual approved by the president and board of trustees and shall
be of such a character and so located, discharged or fired, as not to be
hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons.
         e.   Certificate Of Insurance: The president and board of trustees
shall require a certificate of insurance in form and with coverage approved by
the president and board of trustees or their designees.
         f.   Inspection: Such permit shall be issued only after inspection of
the display site by the applicable fire protection district to determine that
such display shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons.
         g.   Granting Of Permit: After such privilege shall have been granted,
sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such display shall be
lawful for that purpose only.
         h.   Copies Of Permit: One copy of such permit shall be on file with
the village, the applicable fire protection district, and one copy forwarded to
the office of the state fire marshal.
         i.   Transferability: No permit hereunder shall be transferable.
   C.   Fireworks Showers: The use of what are technically known as fireworks
showers or any mixture containing potassium chlorate, and sulphur in theaters
or public halls is hereby prohibited.
   D.   Signals Or Fuses: Nothing in these regulations shall be construed as
prohibiting the manufacture, storage or use of signals or fuses necessary for
the safe operation of railroads, trucks, aircraft, or other instrumentalities
of transportation. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-3-9: POSSESSION AND USE OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified
as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not,
the seed thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake,
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
CASUAL DELIVERY: The delivery of not more than ten grams (10 g) of any
substance containing cannabis without consideration.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or
agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other
entity.
   B.   Possession, Use Or Delivery Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
to knowingly use or possess cannabis or to make or attempt to make a casual
delivery of cannabis.
   C.   Applicability: This section shall only apply to the possession, use
and/or casual delivery of such substance not exceeding ten grams (10 g).
   D.   Medical Use Of Cannabis: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
code to the contrary, pursuant to the compassionate use of medical cannabis
pilot program act 1 , as it may be amended from time to time ("the act"), the
immunities and presumptions set forth in the act related to the medical use of
cannabis are hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent applicable.
(Ord. 2014-O-12, 7-1-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 130.
4-1-4: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE:
4-1-4-1: ASSAULT, BATTERY, FIGHTING:
   A.   Assault: A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he
or she engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
   B.   Battery: A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or
knowingly without legal justification by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      2.   Makes physical contact of any insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   C.   Fighting: It shall be unlawful for any person to fight in any public
place in the village or to commit any assault or battery. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-
1994; amd. 1996 Code)
4-1-4-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and provoke, make or aid in making a breach of peace; or
   B.   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
   C.   Refuses or fails to cease and desist any peaceful conduct or activity
likely to produce a breach of peace where there is an imminent threat of
violence, and where the police have made all reasonable efforts to protect the
otherwise peaceful conduct and activity and have required that said conduct and
activity be stopped and explained the request if there be time; or
   D.   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by him or
her to be a peace officer under circumstances where three (3) or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts
are likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or
alarm; or
   E.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using force
or violence to disturb the public peace; or
   F.   Appears in any public place manifestly under the influence of narcotics
or other drugs, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that he or she
may endanger themselves or other persons or property, or annoys persons in his
or her vicinity; or
   G.   Carries in a threatening or menacing manner, without authority of law,
any pistol, revolver, dagger, razor, dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles,
slingshot, an object containing noxious or deleterious liquid, gas or substance
or other dangerous weapon or conceals said weapon on or about the person or any
vehicle; or
   H.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it; or
   I.   Is on any Village, school district, park district, County or State
property without permission or in violation of the rules and regulations of
such Village, school district, park district, County or State, or is loitering
on any publicly dedicated street adjacent to such Village, school district,
park district, County or State property. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-4-3: MENDICANTS AND VAGRANTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any mendicant or vagrant to frequent any
depot, store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place or
any place frequented by the public in the Village.
   B.   Any person found sleeping in such place, and who has no established
domicile or residence, shall be considered to be a vagrant. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-
19-1994)
4-1-4-4: DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the Village. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-4-5: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES:
It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any disorderly crowd,
or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-
1994)
4-1-4-6: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or airguns in the Village;
provided, that this Section shall not be construed to prohibit any peace
officer from discharging a firearm in the performance of such officer's duty;
nor any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her
person or property. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-4-7: TRANSMISSION OF OBSCENE MESSAGES PROHIBITED:
No person shall send a message or use language or terms which are obscene, lewd
or immoral with the intent to offend by means of or while using a telephone or
telegraph facilities, equipment or wires of any person engaged in the
transmission of news or messages to or from a location within this Village. The
use of language or terms which are obscene, lewd or immoral is prima facie
evidence of the intent to offend. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-4-8: TELEPHONE HARASSMENT:
Harassment by telephone is use of telephone communication for any of the
following purposes:
   A.   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent with an intent to offend; or
   B.   Making a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
intent to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called number; or
   C.   Making or causing the telephone of another repeatedly to ring, with
intent to harass any person at the called number; or
   D.   Making repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
solely to harass any person at the called number; or
   E.   Knowingly permitting any telephone under one's control to be used for
any of the purposes mentioned herein. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-4-9: POSSESSION OF WEAPONS BY PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   Unlawful Possession: It is declared unlawful for any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to be in possession of any of the following items:
      1.   Bowie, switchblade, ballistic knives, throwing stars, or other edged
weapons as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1(1);
      2.   Metallic knuckles or numchucks;
      3.   Slingshots;
      4.   Arrows designed for firing from a bow or crossbow device, except
when such person is engaged in supervised target shooting, or the otherwise
legal transportation of such device;
      5.   Stun gun or taser;
      6.   Any devise or attachment or any kind designed, used or intended for
use in silencing the report of a firearm;
      7.   Machine gun as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1;
      8.   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing
an explosive substance of over one-fourth (1/4) ounce for like purposes, such
as, but not limited to, black powder bombs, molotov cocktails, pipe bombs or
artillery projectiles;
      9.   Firearms, or the ammunition therefor, as defined by 430 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/1.1, except when such person is engaged in supervised
target shooting, or the otherwise legal transportation of such device;
      10.   Fireworks, as defined by 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/2.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent or legal
guardian to permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to be in, or
come into, the unsupervised possession of any items listed in subsection A of
this Section. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-5: OFFENSES AGAINST AUTHORITY:
4-1-5-1: FALSE ALARMS, CALLS OR REPORTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly:
   A.   Transmit in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists; or
   B.   Transmit in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place; or
   C.   Transmit in any manner to any peace officer, police officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-5-2: RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING OFFICER, EMPLOYEE:
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by one known to
the person to be an officer or employee of the Village of any authorized act
within his official capacity. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-5-3: OBSTRUCTING SERVICE OF PROCESS:
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the authorized service or
execution of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. (Ord. 94-O-
18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-5-4: IMPERSONATING OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate without lawful authority any
Village officer or employee. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-5-5: REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER:
No person shall upon command refuse or knowingly fail to aid a person known by
him to be a peace officer of the Village in:
   A.   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   B.   Preventing the commission by another of any offense. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-
19-1994)
4-1-5-6: RESISTING ARREST, USE OF FORCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use force to resist an arrest which he
knows is being made either by a peace officer or by a private person summoned
and directed by a peace officer to make the arrest, even if he or she believes
that the arrest is unlawful and the arrest in fact is unlawful. (Ord. 94-O-18,
8-19-1994)
4-1-6: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY:
4-1-6-1: THEFT OF PROPERTY UNDER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS IN VALUE:
A person commits theft when, with respect to the property of another not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value (other than a firearm)
he or she knowingly:
   A.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over such property of another;
or
   B.   Obtains by deception control over such property of another; or
   C.   Obtains by threat control over such property of another; or
   D.   Obtains control over such stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him to believe that such property was stolen, and:
      1.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
such property; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons such property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      3.   Uses, conceals, or abandons such property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-6-2: THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY UNDER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS IN
VALUE:
A person commits theft who obtains control over lost or mislaid property not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value when he or she:
   A.   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of, or
learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner, and
   B.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore such property to the
owner, and
   C.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of such
property. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-6-3: THEFT OF LABOR AS SERVICES OR USE OF PROPERTY UNDER ONE HUNDRED FIFTY
DOLLARS IN VALUE:
A person commits theft when he or she obtains the temporary use of property
labor or services of another where such property, labor or services does not
exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value and where such property,
labor or services which are available only for hire, by means of threat or
deception or knowing that such use is without the consent of the person
providing the property, labor or services. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-6-4: DECEPTIVE PRACTICES:
A person commits the offense of deceptive practices when with intent to obtain
control over property or to pay for property, labor or services of another, he
or she issues or delivers a check or other order upon a real or fictitious
depository for the payment of money, knowing that it will not be paid by the
depository. Failure to have sufficient funds or credit with the depository when
the check or other order is issued or delivered is prima facie evidence that
the offender knows that it will not be paid by the depository. (Ord. 94-O-18,
8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-6-5: DEFACING ADVERTISING:
It shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement or notice.
(Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-6-6: POSTING BILLS WITHOUT CONSENT:
It shall be unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on any public property
without the authority of the President and Board of Trustees and it shall be
unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on private property without the
written consent of the owner of the property thereof. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994)
4-1-6-7: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
A person commits the offense of criminal damage to property not exceeding one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value, when he or she, with respect to such
property:
   A.   Knowingly damages any such property of another without such person's
consent; or
   B.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages such property of
another; or
   C.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without such person's
consent; or
   D.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without such person's
consent; or
   E.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
such person's consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building;
   F.   Knowingly damages the property of another without such person's consent
by defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging the property by the use of paint
or any other similar substance and the damage to the property does not exceed
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996
Code)
4-1-6-8: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO VEHICLES:
A person commits the offense of criminal trespass to a vehicle when he or she
knowingly and without authority enters any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or
any part thereof of another without such person's consent. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-
1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-6-9: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND:
   A.   A person commits the offense of criminal trespass to land when he or
she enters upon the land or any part thereof of another, after receiving,
immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such
entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after receiving notice
from the owner or occupant to depart.
   B.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection A if he or she has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry
has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or
the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   This Section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of owner's agent
having apparent authority to hire workers on such land and assign them living
quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone living
on such land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other agreement or
arrangement with the owner or owner's agent, nor to anyone invited by such
migrant worker or other person so living on such land to visit such migrant at
the place such migrant is so living upon the land. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994;
1996 Code)
   D.   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this Section if such
person beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial
properties located within any municipality. For the purpose of this subsection,
"unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property" means any real
estate 1) in which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least two
(2) years; and 2) which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of
at least one year; and "beautifies" means to landscape, clean up litter, or to
repair dilapidated conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
   E.   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to subsection D of this Section. (1996 Code)
4-1-6-10: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
A person commits the offense of criminal damage to public property in the
following instances:
   A.   He or she knowingly damages any property supported in whole or in part
with public funds or belonging to any governmental body;
   B.   He or she knowingly, by means of fire or explosive damages property
supported in whole or in part with public funds or belonging to any
governmental body;
   C.   He or she knowingly starts a fire on property supported in whole or in
part with public funds or belonging to any governmental body;
   D.   He or she knowingly deposits on land or in a building supported in
whole or in part with public funds or belonging to any governmental body
without the consent of such governmental body any stink bomb or any offensive
smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of
the land or building. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-6-11: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Whoever enters upon land supported in whole or in part with public
funds or belonging to any governmental body or any building on such land, after
receiving immediately prior to such entry, notice that such entry is forbidden,
or remains upon such land or in such building after receiving notice.
   B.   A person has received notice within the meaning of subsection A if he
or she has been notified personally, either orally or in writing, or if a
printed or written notice forbidding entry to him or her or a group of which he
or she is a part, has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994;
1996 Code)
4-1-6-12: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle,
including but not limited to automobiles, trucks, go-carts, snowmobiles,
motorcycles, dirt bikes, all-terrain vehicles or any other motorized vehicle
able or unable to be licensed in the State of Illinois, upon any private
property within the Village without the prior written consent of the owner of
said property.
   B.   Any person operating any such motor vehicle on private property shall
have the required written consent in his or her immediate possession and, for
the purpose of indicating compliance with this Section, shall display such
written consent upon demand made by any law enforcement officer or by any
conservator of the peace. (Ord. 89-O-20, 7-11-1989; 1996 Code)
4-1-7: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS:
4-1-7-1: INDECENT CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent or immoral act, or
to appear in any public place not properly or decently garbed. (Ord. 94-O-18,
8-19-1994)
4-1-7-2: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Elements Of Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of
the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof, he or she:
      1.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
      2.   Presents or directs any obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
      3.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
or
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain; or
      5.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this Section, or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   B.   Definition: A thing is obscene if, considered as a whole, its
predominant appeal is to prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters. A
thing is obscene even though the obscenity is latent, as in the case of
undeveloped photographs.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence:
      1.   Judgment Reference: Obscenity shall be judged with reference to
ordinary adults, except that it shall be judged with reference to children or
other specially susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the
material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for
or directed to such an audience.
      2.   Commercial Exploitation: Where circumstances of production,
presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that
material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal,
such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can
justify the conclusion that the matter is utterly without redeeming social
importance.
      3.   Admissible Evidence: In any prosecution for an offense under this
Section, evidence shall be admissible to show:
         a.   The character of the audience for which the material was designed
or to which it was directed;
         b.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people;
         c.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         d.   The degree, if any, if public acceptance of the material in the
community;
         e.   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         f.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   D.   Prima Facie Evidence: The creation, purchase, procurement or possession
of a mold, engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted
for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three (3)
copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate.
   E.   Affirmative Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain and was made to person associates other than
children under eighteen (18) years of age:
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-
1994)
4-1-8: LIQUOR REGULATIONS:
4-1-8-1: GENERAL ALCOHOL REGULATION:
See Section
2-3-21 of this Code. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; 1996 Code)
4-1-8-2: HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTED:
See section
2-3-22 of this code. (Ord. 94-O-18, 8-19-1994; amd. 1996 Code)
4-1-9: COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   Definitions: In this section, unless the context or subject matter
otherwise requires:
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any table game, machine, apparatus, contrivance, appliance,
or device which may be operated or played involving in its use either skill or
chance, including, but not limited to, any pool table, billiard table, bumper
pool, tape machine, card machine, bowling game machine, shuffleboard machine,
marble game machine, horseracing machine, basketball machine, baseball game
machine, football game machine, foosball table, dart game, musical dancing
game, or any other similar mechanical or electronic game machine or device
(hereinafter referred to as "amusement device" or as "device").
ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any electronic device which, upon the insertion or
other use of a coin, token, prepaid card, slug, other mechanical or electrical
device, or the payment of a fee in some other manner, may be used by the public
for use as a game, entertainment, amusement, test of skill, either mental or
physical, whether or not registering a score. Without any limitation on the
foregoing, electronic amusement devices shall include, but not be limited to,
arcade type video games, pinball machines, musical dancing games and the like.
Electronic amusement devices shall not include billiard tables and other
similar table games.
PERSON: Any corporation, association, partnership, club, society or any
individual.
PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT OR OPEN TO THE PUBLIC: Any premises wherein any service,
food, or beverage or merchandise is offered for sale to the public or by the
general public or by members and guests of any club.
PROPRIETOR: The person in whose place of business any such amusement device is
placed for the use, amusement, patronage or recreation of the general public or
members and guests of any club.
TABLE GAMES: Games such as billiards, pool, foosball, table tennis, air hockey,
and the like that are primarily played on a table whether activated manually or
by the insertion of a coin, token, prepaid card, slug, or other mechanical or
electronic devices. Table games shall not include pinball, video games, and
other electronic amusement devices.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within
the village an amusement device, either for gain or not, open to the public or
in any place of public resort, without a license therefor.
   C.   License Term, Sticker, And Fee: Any license issued for an amusement
device pursuant to this section shall be for the term of one year beginning May
1 of a specific year and ending on April 30 of the next consecutive year, and
the holder of any such license shall be required to renew such license no later
than April 30 of each year. Each amusement device proposed to be operated
within the village and licensed pursuant to this section shall bear a sticker
issued by the village clerk, which sticker shall be valid for a term of one
year beginning May 1 of a specific year and ending on April 30 of the next
consecutive year. The fee for each amusement device license and the related
sticker issued pursuant to this section shall be as specified from time to time
in section
1-10-7 of this code. In addition, renewal applications shall include a late fee
as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
The owner and/or lessee of such device(s) and the proprietor of the premises in
the village where such amusement device(s) is or are located shall be jointly
liable for securing the license for such device(s) and the payment of such
annual license fee for such device(s) as well as any applicable late fees. The
village clerk shall issue as evidence of payment of said fee a sticker which
shall be affixed to and conspicuously displayed on each such device.
   D.   Application For License: Application for a license for any amusement
device shall be obtained from and submitted to the village clerk, together with
a floor plan of the premises of operation pursuant to this section, by the
owner and/or lessee of such device or by the proprietor in whose place of
business any such amusement device is placed for the use, amusement, patronage,
or recreation of the general public or members and guests of a club and shall
be signed by the applicant, if an individual; by a partner in the case of a
partnership; or by an officer in the case of a corporation, club, association,
or society, verified by oath or affidavit; and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The name, address, age, date and place of birth of the applicant, if
an individual; the names, addresses, ages, and dates and places of birth of all
general or limited partners, if a partnership; the names, addresses, ages,
dates and places of birth of all officers and directors of the corporation,
club, association or society, if a corporation, club, association or society.
      2.   A statement of the principal kind of business of the applicant.
      3.   A statement of whether corporate business will be conducted by a
manager, and the name, address, and authority of any such manager or agent.
      4.   The names, addresses, and dates of birth of all persons, firms and
organizations owning of record five percent (5%) or more of the corporation's
stock or five percent (5%) or more interest in a partnership.
      5.   A statement of whether any partner, officer, manager, director, or
shareholder owning five percent (5%) or more of the stock of a corporation has
ever been convicted of a felony or has ever forfeited an appearance bond on a
felony charge, and a statement of any prior convictions of such persons for any
violations of the gaming laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, or
of any federal gaming laws.
      6.   A statement of the personal history of the manager or agent to be
conducting business for the applicant.
      7.   The place where the device(s) is to be displayed or operated and the
business conducted at that place.
      8.   A description of each device to be covered by the license,
mechanical and electronic features, if any, and name of manufacturer of each
such device.
      9.   Whether said device is owned by applicant, and if not, the name and
address of the owner thereof.
   E.   Code Enforcement Inspection:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of any amusement device license hereunder, all
applications shall be submitted with a floor plan of the proposed premises to
the village administrator, or his designee, for approval of the proposed floor
plan, which shall show, include, but not be limited to, the following
specifications:
         a.   Square footage;
         b.   Exits (door locations);
         c.   Seating arrangement;
         d.   Amusement device locations;
         e.   Aisle widths;
         f.   Emergency and exit lighting;
         g.   Bathroom locations;
         h.   Schematic of electrical system, inclusive of floor plan; and
         i.   If electrical work is to be completed, an application or
electrical permit, together with a schematic of the electrical system,
inclusive of the floor plan.
The premises of operation for which application is made shall comply with all
applicable provisions of this code, including, but not limited to, the village
of Lake Barrington zoning regulations. Prior to any modification of the
proposed floor plan, any changes of or to the above listed floor plan
specifications shall be immediately submitted to the village administrator, or
his designee, for approval.
      2.   All applicants for amusement device license(s) shall:
         a.   Install and maintain on the premises where such devices shall be
operated approved crash bar device(s) for all exits.
         b.   Install on the premises where such devices shall be operated dry
type fire extinguisher(s), the number and location of which shall be determined
by the applicable fire district inspector, or his designee.
         c.   Apply for and obtain all other necessary permits and approvals
from the village as may be applicable.
   F.   Investigation: Prior to the commencement of the operation of any such
amusement device on a premises, the police department serving the village and
the building commissioner shall investigate the location wherein such amusement
devices are proposed to be operated and determine the accuracy of and verify
the information submitted by the applicant. The village is authorized to make
an inspection from time to time of the premises wherein such amusement devices
are operated to verify the number of licensed amusement devices and whether
each such amusement device bears the required sticker as issued by the village
and whether the premises conforms to the requirements of this section.
   G.   Eligibility For License: Amusement devices shall be allowed and
licensed only in compliance with the village of Lake Barrington zoning
regulations.
   H.   Village Clerk Issues Licenses; Waiting Period:
      1.   The application for one or more amusement device license(s) shall be
obtained from and completed applications submitted to the village clerk who
shall have the authority to approve or deny the license application based upon
the applicant's compliance with this section. Stickers for each amusement
device shall also be obtained from and issued by the village clerk.
      2.   No license shall be issued until at least thirty (30) days from the
date of filing of the application with the village clerk.
   I.   Display Of License: The license or licenses herein provided for shall
be posted prominently and conspicuously at the location of the amusement device
(s) in the premises the device(s) is to be operated or to be maintained to be
operated. It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of any amusement device
or of the premises within the village or any person in control of such premises
to permit the installation or use of any amusement device unless a license has
been issued for same and the fee has been paid and is evidenced by a sticker
affixed to the device. It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate said
sticker at any time during the year for which it was issued. Each such device
shall also be plainly labeled with the name, address, and telephone number of
its owner. No person shall keep or display for operation or patronage by the
public within the village any such device without first having obtained a
license and required sticker therefor from the village clerk.
   J.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any person owning, possessing, or
operating any amusement device to permit said device to include any form of
gambling or to include any scheme whatsoever to dispense any form of payoff,
prize, reward, except free games dispensed by the device, and nothing in this
section shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any
gambling device whatsoever or any mechanism which has been judicially
determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to the laws of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 2
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Registration Of Alarm System
4-2-3: False Alarms
4-2-4: Testing Of Equipment
4-2-5: Maintenance Of Equipment
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALARM HOLDER: The owner of an alarm system or the owner or occupant of the
premises within which an alarm system is installed or operated. In the event
that the owner of an alarm system, the owner of the premises and/or occupant of
the premises in which an alarm system is located are different, all of said
persons, entities, firms or corporations shall be jointly and severally liable
for any violation of this chapter.
ALARM SYSTEM: An assembly of equipment components or devices installed within
or on premises which is designed to signal the presence of any hazard or
emergency requiring urgent attention and to which police or the fire district
are expected to respond. Alarms systems shall include, but not be limited to,
fire, burglar and holdup alarms.
COUNTY: County of Lake, state of Illinois.
FALSE ALARM: The transmission of any alarm signal caused by human error or
mechanical malfunction, whether or not the exact cause of the error or
malfunction is identified or any other activation of the signal when no actual
emergency exists, except that the transmission of an alarm signal caused by a
weather related incident shall not constitute a false alarm. Any false alarm
shall be presumed to be not weather related and it shall be the burden of the
alarm holder to rebut the presumption that the alarm was not weather related.
FIRE DISTRICT: The fire protection district which serves the premises upon
which is situated the alarm system.
SERVICE CHARGE: An assessment by the village against an alarm holder for a
false alarm emanating from an alarm system as provided in this chapter.
SHERIFF: The sheriff of Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington. (Ord. 88-O-02, 1-4-1988)
4-2-2: REGISTRATION OF ALARM SYSTEM:
   A.   Registration With Sheriff: No alarm system shall be permitted,
maintained or operated without first registering such alarm system with the
sheriff. The respective alarm holder or holders of each alarm system shall
register such alarm system with the sheriff prior to any operation thereof.
   B.   Liability For Alarm Service Failure: All registrants and all
manufacturers and companies under contract to maintain receiving alarm
equipment with facilities of the county, the fire district or the village shall
be deemed to have agreed that the county and the village shall not be held
liable for any alarm service failure and shall not be held liable for any
consequential damages resulting from such failure. Further, such registrants,
upon registering their alarm systems, also agree thereby that the village, the
fire district and the county shall not be held liable for any damage that may
result from the installation, maintenance or operation of the alarm system.
Such installation, maintenance and operation being the sole responsibility of
the alarm holder. Further, all alarm holders, by the act of obtaining issuance
of a registration to them, shall be deemed to have agreed to all of the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Indemnification: All applicants, by receiving a registration, agree to
indemnify, defend and save harmless the village, the fire district and the
county, their agents, servants and employees and the manufacturers and
companies, if any, under contract or agreement to maintain the receiving alarm
equipment in the village, the fire district and the county facilities, from all
claims, demands, judgments, liability, costs and expenses that may arise, in
any way, as a result or utilization of the alarm connection to the village, the
fire district and the county facilities.
   D.   Installation Costs: All registrants agree that the village, the fire
district, the county and equipment manufacturers and companies under contract
to maintain receiving alarm equipment within the county facilities, shall not
be liable for any costs or expenses of installation, maintenance of leased
services or any other charge or fees for any alarm equipment leased or owned by
the registrant.
   E.   Certification Of Alternate Power Source: All registrants at the time of
making application for a registration must certify that they have a system of
alarm maintenance available to them on a twenty four (24) hour basis and that
an alternative power source is available to prevent false alarms due to any
failure of power supplied by a utility company. (Ord. 88-O-02, 1-4-1988)
4-2-3: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Service Charge: The first three (3) false alarms to the same alarm
holder in any calendar year shall be without charge. A service charge as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code, which shall be the base service charge, shall be billed to
the alarm holder for the fourth through sixth false alarms in any calendar year
and such service charge shall increase by an additional amount equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the base service charge for each false alarm after
the sixth false alarm in any calendar year.
   B.   Payment Of Charges: Payment of such charges shall be made to the
village within fifteen (15) days after the notice of each such charge is sent
to the alarm owners. Should a test alarm be transmitted by a piece of
electronic equipment then under service by an alarm company, there shall be no
charge provided the alarm holder gives the village proof that the defect is
being corrected.
   C.   Failure To Pay; Filing Of Action: Failure or refusal of any alarm
holder to pay the service charge for false alarms may result in an action being
filed by the village against such alarm holder who is in violation of this
chapter. If such an action is deemed necessary by the village, the village
shall have the right to pursue all legal and equitable remedies against the
alarm holder.
   D.   Grace Period: A thirty (30) day grace period for new alarm systems or
for major modification or additions to existing alarm systems may be granted
upon application to and approval in advance by the village. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-
5-2008)
4-2-4: TESTING OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Prior Approval: Alarm systems transmitting emergency signals directly
to the communication center of the county shall be tested or demonstrated only
with prior approval from the sheriff.
   B.   Nonemergency Messages: Approval of the sheriff is not required to test
or demonstrate alarm devices not transmitting emergency messages directly to
the communication center unless the messages are to be relayed to county
facilities. (Ord. 88-O-02, 1-4-1988)
4-2-5: MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Twenty Four Hour Maintenance: All alarm holders shall have a system of
alarm maintenance available to them on a twenty four (24) hour basis.
   B.   Alternate Power Source: All alarm holders shall have an alternative
power source available to prevent false alarms due to any failure of power
supplied by a utility company. (Ord. 88-O-02, 1-4-1988)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Cruelty To Animals
4-3-3: Animals Disturbing The Peace; Noisy Animals
4-3-4: Dangerous Animals At Large
4-3-5: Killing Dangerous Animals
4-3-6: Animals Running At Large; Leash Required
4-3-7: Diseased Animals
4-3-8: Cleanliness Of Premises
4-3-9: Animal Waste
4-3-10: Number Of Animals Limited
4-3-11:    Beekeeping And Apiaries
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, except where otherwise stated or
clearly apparent from the context, words used herein shall be given their
common and ordinary meanings except the following definitions shall apply:
AT LARGE: Being off the property of the owner or keeper of the domestic animal
in question.
DOG: All members of the canine family.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: This term shall include, but not be limited to, canine,
feline, bovine, equine, porcine, caprine, domestic fowl, and rabbits.
KENNEL: The keeping and/or maintenance of more than three (3) dogs, each of
which is more than one year old, or more than three (3) cats, each of which is
more than one year old. By way of an example in the application of this
definition, this definition and section
4-3-10 of this chapter would allow up to three (3) dogs, each more than one
year old, and/or up to three (3) cats, each more than one year old, for a
combined total of as many as six (6) animals which are each more than one year
old.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog or who keeps or harbors a
dog or has it in his care or acts as its custodian or who knowingly permits a
dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
STRAY DOGS: Those dogs found in the public way or on private property other
than that of the owner. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999; amd. Ord. 2018-O-10, 6-6-2018)
4-3-2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal. Any person who inhumanely beats,
mistreats, underfeeds or abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this section. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-3: ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE; NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for a dog or other animal to disturb the peace by repeated
noise, and repeated noise for the purposes of this provision shall mean any
barking or other noise which occurs or reoccurs more than twice during any
twenty four (24) hour period. It shall also be unlawful for any animal to
disturb the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. The owner and
keeper of such a dog or other animal shall be jointly and severally liable for
any violation of this section. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-4: DANGEROUS ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or any vicious animal of
any kind to run at large within the Village. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-5: KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
The members of any police department serving the Village or any other
conservator of the peace is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind
when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property. (Ord. 99-O-
05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-6: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; LEASH REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to permit any "dog" or other "domestic animal" as defined
herein to run "at large", which is hereby defined as being off the property of
the owner or keeper of such domestic animal, unless such animal is secured on a
leash or physical restraint of strength sufficient to exercise control over
such animal. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-7: DISEASED ANIMALS:
No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be
allowed to run at large, or be exposed in any public place whereby the health
of man or beast may be affected. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-8: CLEANLINESS OF PREMISES:
No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or may
be kept to become unclean or unwholesome. (Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999)
4-3-9: ANIMAL WASTE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for an owner, keeper or other person having
control of any animal to permit such animal to defecate or deposit excreta upon
any public property or upon any private premises not belonging to the owner,
keeper or other person having control of said animal without the consent of the
owner of such property.
   B.   The owner, keeper or other person having control of any animal which
defecates or deposits excreta upon any public property or upon any private
premises not belonging to the owner, keeper, or other person having control of
such animal shall immediately remove such excreta from any public property or
private premises as aforesaid.
   C.   This section shall not apply to a blind person while walking his or her
guide dog.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, the term "public property" shall
include, but not be limited to any public street, road, cul-de-sac, and/or
right-of-way, or any publicly-owned park, open space, preserve, and any other
publicly-owned land.
   E.   For the purposes of this section, the term "private premises not
belonging to the owner, keeper, or other person having control of such animal"
shall include, but not be limited to any property owned and/or managed by a
homeowners' association, condominium association, or common interest
association, unless such association has a published rule to the contrary.
(Ord. 99-O-05, 3-2-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-O-02, 1-5-2021)
4-3-10: NUMBER OF ANIMALS LIMITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to maintain a kennel on any lot or parcel within
the Village, except as specifically permitted by section
8-5-1 of this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain on any lot or parcel within
the Village, for any length of time, more than three (3) dogs, each of which is
more than one year old, or more than three (3) cats, each of which is more than
one year old, except as specifically permitted by section
8-5-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-O-10, 6-6-2018)
4-3-11: BEEKEEPING AND APIARIES:
The keeping of honeybees, of the European species Apis mellifera, except for
Apis mellifera scutellata Lepeletier, shall be permitted as an accessory use in
any R-1, R-2, and R-5 Zoning District or in any Agricultural Overlay Zoning
District, subject to the following conditions and limitations:
   A.   Number Of Beehives: Two (2) full beehives ("hives") and two (2)
"nucleus hives" shall be permitted on residential lots and one additional
beehive and one additional nucleus hive shall be permitted for each additional
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of property over 40,000 square feet. For the
purposes of this Section, a "full hive" is any hive which exceeds five (5)
frame(s), and a "nucleus hive" is any hive which consists of five (5) frames or
less.
   B.   Location And Setbacks:
      1.   Setbacks To Property Lines: Hives and related structures that form
an apiary shall be located a minimum of thirty feet (30') from any adjoining
driveway, any improved easement for purposes of ingress or egress, or any
public or private road or street right-of-way and shall be no closer to side or
rear lot lines than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot,
provided, however, that in no event shall hives be located in any front yard.
In the case of an unimproved right-of-way, this provision may be modified by
the Building and Zoning Officer in consultation with the appropriate local
roadway authority.
      2.   Setback To Structures: Hives shall be located a minimum of thirty
feet (30') from dwellings, nonresidential buildings, patios, porches, gazebos,
decks, swimming pools, or permanently affixed play equipment, on an adjacent
property but may be within thirty feet (30') of storage structures such as
garages and sheds.
      3.   Signage: A sign, identifying the presence of beehives on the
property shall be posted so as to be reasonably visible within close proximity
of the apiary.
   C.   Management Practices:
      1.   Water Supply: A supply of water shall be continuously available and
located within the parcel. Water supply shall be designed to allow bees to
access water. Water requirement shall be in effect from April 1 through
November 20, or any and all days on which the temperature exceeds fifty five
degrees (55°) for three (3) consecutive days.
      2.   Requeening: In any instance in which a hive exhibits unusually
aggressive characteristics, as verified by an Illinois apiary inspector, the
property owner shall destroy, move to another parcel or requeen the hive within
fourteen (14) days of said verification.
      3.   Movable Combs: All honeybees shall be kept in hives with removable
combs, which shall be kept in good repair and usable condition.
   D.   Registration Fees: An initial non-refundable registration fee and
thereafter an annual registration fee shall be required for beekeeping and
apiaries as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7  of this Village Code. (Ord. 2023-O-06, 3-2-2023)V
CHAPTER 4
GAMBLING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Prohibited Acts
4-4-3: Exceptions
4-4-4: Keeping A Gambling Place
4-4-5: Penalties
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A gambling device does
not include:
   A.   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
   B.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   C.   A crane game. For the purposes of this Section, a crane game is an
amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than seven (7) times the cost charged to play the amusement device
once or five dollars ($5.00), whichever is less.
   D.   Gambling includes, but is not limited to, baccarat, twenty one, poker,
craps, slot machine, video game of chance, roulette wheel, klondike table,
punchboard, faro layout, keno layout, numbers ticket, push card, jar ticket or
pull tab.
GAMBLING PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever
used for the purposes of gambling.
LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees by
any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt. (Ord. 92-O-40, 1-6-1993)
4-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gambling is hereby prohibited within the corporate limits of the
Village. A person commits gambling when such person:
      1.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in Section 4-5-3; or
      2.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
      3.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device; or
      4.   Contracts to have or give himself, herself or another the option to
buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it is at
the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that the
contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to section 8 of the
Illinois Securities Law of 1953, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8, or by or
through a person exempt from such registration under said section 8, of a put,
call or other option to buy or sell securities which have been registered with
the Secretary of State or which are exempt from such registration under section
3 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3,
is not gambling within the meaning of this subsection; or
      5.   Knowingly owns or possesses any hook, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the course of a
bet or wager; or
      6.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
      7.   Sets up or promotes any lottery, or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
      8.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document or
other similar device; or
      9.   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government; or
      10.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      11.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this subsection prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
   B.   Circumstantial Evidence: In prosecutions under this Section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
   C.   Sentence: Gambling under this Section is a Class A misdemeanor. (Ord.
92-O-40, 1-6-1993; 1996 Code)
4-4-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted of
gambling therefor:
   A.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
   B.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
   C.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the laws of this State;
   D.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of essential
parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in interstate or
foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such transportation is
not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
   E.   The game commonly known as bingo when conducted in accordance with the
bingo license and tax act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/1 et seq.;
   F.   Lotteries when conducted by the state of Illinois in accordance with
the Illinois lottery law, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1605/1 et seq.;
   G.   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor intended
to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling activity or
enterprise. For the purpose of this subsection, an antique slot machine is one
manufactured twenty five (25) years ago or earlier;
   H.   Raffles when conducted in accordance with the raffles act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 15/0.01 et seq.;
   I.   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the charitable games
act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq.; or
   J.   Pull-tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois pull-tabs and
jar games act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 20/1 et seq. (Ord. 92-O-40, 1-6-
1993)
4-4-4: KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE:
Any person who knowingly permits any premises or property owned or occupied by
such person or under such person's control to be used as a gambling place
commits a violation of this chapter, which violation shall be a class A
misdemeanor.
   A.   Such premises are a public nuisance and may be proceeded against as
such; and
   B.   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the village or any
subdivision or public agency thereof authorizing the serving of food or liquor
on such premises shall be void; and no license, permit or certificate so
canceled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of sixty (60) days
thereafter, nor shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place under
this chapter or a similar statute be reissued such license for one year from
his conviction. After a second conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such
person shall not be reissued such license; and
   C.   Such premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a violation
of any provision of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be sold to
pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied fine
that may be levied under any section of this chapter. (Ord. 92-O-40, 1-6-1993;
amd. 1996 Code)
4-4-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Class A Misdemeanor: Any person who shall violate a provision of this
chapter or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, shall be
guilty of a class A misdemeanor, punishable by a term of imprisonment in other
than a penitentiary for less than one year and by fine(s) and other penalties
as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this chapter or of failing
to comply with any requirement thereof shall, in addition to the fine(s) and
other penalties provided, be obligated to reimburse the village for its
attorney fees to the extent permitted by law, court costs, court reporter
costs, expert witness fees and all other out of pocket costs incurred by the
village in the prosecution of the said violation or violations. (Ord. 2008-O-
05, 2-5-2008)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE STICKERS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Vehicle Stickers Authorized
5-1-2: Application For Stickers
5-1-3: Conditions Of Stickers
5-1-1: VEHICLE STICKERS AUTHORIZED:
The village clerk is hereby authorized to issue a motor vehicle sticker to each
resident and to each business or institution located within the village
applying therefor for attachment to any and all motor vehicles, title to which
is registered in the name of said resident or said business with the office of
the secretary of state of Illinois, department of motor vehicles. (Ord. 2003-O-
22, 12-23-2003)
5-1-2: APPLICATION FOR STICKERS:
The village clerk may require the following information on an application for a
motor vehicle sticker:
   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   That the applicant is one of the registered owners or leaseholders of
the said motor vehicle.
   C.   The year, model and make of the said motor vehicle.
   D.   The Illinois license registration (i.e., the license plate number) for
the current year. (Ord. 2003-O-22, 12-23-2003)
5-1-3: CONDITIONS OF STICKERS:
   A.   Contents: Said motor vehicle sticker shall state as follows and shall
be in the following form:
   LAKE BARRINGTON, ILL.
   (Year)
   Expires March 1, (of following year)
   VEHICLE TAG
   NO. V-1 (and successive numbers)
   B.   Fee Required: Said sticker shall be issued upon the payment of a fee as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code and presentation of a duly completed application pursuant
to section
5-1-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Display On Windshield: Display of such sticker shall not be mandatory,
but if displayed, said sticker shall be displayed on the windshield of the
motor vehicle for which it is issued in such fashion as not to interfere with
the vision of the operator of the vehicle.
   D.   Term: The sticker shall be valid for two (2) calendar years. (Ord.
2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Adoption Of Illinois Motor Vehicle Code
5-2-2: Specific Adoption And Exclusions
5-2-3: Amendments, Modifications And/Or Additions
5-2-4: Illinois Route 59 Improvement
5-2-5: Specific Penalties
5-2-1: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS MOTOR VEHICLE CODE:
There is hereby adopted by reference the following provisions of the Illinois
motor vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as the same may be amended
from time to time, the same being a public record of the state, subject to
additions, amendments or modifications hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-
1-1992)
5-2-2: SPECIFIC ADOPTION AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   The following provisions of the Illinois motor vehicle code are hereby
expressly adopted by reference: chapters 1, 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16
in their entirety, as they may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Excluded from adoption by reference and hereby deleted are chapters 2,
5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 17, 18 and the miscellaneous laws of the Illinois motor vehicle
code except as specified above. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-2-3: AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS AND/OR ADDITIONS:
Chapters 3 through 7 of this title are amendments, modifications and/or
additions in the provisions in the Illinois motor vehicle code otherwise herein
adopted by reference. To the extent such amendments, modifications and/or
additions or any other provisions of this title are inconsistent with the
provision of the Illinois motor vehicle code herein adopted, the more
restrictive and specific regulation shall apply. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-2-4: ILLINOIS ROUTE 59 IMPROVEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or permit or cause to be
discharged sanitary and industrial wastewater into any storm sewers constructed
as part of the improvement of Illinois Route 59 in the village. (Ord. 76-O-04,
6-1-1976)
5-2-5: SPECIFIC PENALTIES:
Every person convicted of violating any provision of the Illinois motor vehicle
code as incorporated herein by reference shall be punishable by one or more of
the following dispositions as are authorized for such offense by reference to
the Illinois motor vehicle code and as may be determined by the court:
   A.   Fine: Such maximum fine as authorized by reference to the Illinois
motor vehicle code;
   B.   Incarceration: A term of incarceration, either periodic or continuous,
in a penal institution other than the penitentiary for a period not to exceed
three hundred sixty four (364) days as authorized by reference to the Illinois
motor vehicle code; and/or
   C.   Supervision Or Conditional Discharge: A term of supervision or
conditional discharge as authorized by reference to the Illinois motor vehicle
code and the Illinois unified code of corrections. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Stopping, Standing Or Parking
5-3-2: Obedience To Signs
5-3-3: Notice On Illegally Parked Vehicle (Rep. by Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
5-3-4: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking (Rep. by Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-
5-2013)
5-3-5: Relocation Of Vehicles In Emergencies
5-3-6: Regulations Relative To Specific Intersections
5-3-7: Police Officer
5-3-8: Parking Violations
5-3-9: Enforcement
5-3-10: Regulation Of Unscheduled Stops And Unloading Of Passengers By
Intercity Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-5-2 of this title.
5-3-1: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING:
   A.   Authority to Regulate and/or Prohibit: The President and Board of
Trustees hereby determine and designate those streets or parts of streets upon
which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles shall be and is hereby
prohibited at all times or within certain hours or permitted only for a limited
period of time or limited in the manner such as angle, parallel, or handicapped
parking only.
   B.   Parking Not to Obstruct Traffic: It is unlawful for any person to park,
stop or leave standing any vehicle upon any street, whether attended or
unattended, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than fifteen feet (15') of the width of the roadway for free movement of
vehicular traffic except on a one-way street.
   C.   M, B or O Zoning District: No person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon any street or portion of a
street in or adjacent to any M, B or O Zoning District, as designated on the
Official Zoning Map of this Village, for any purpose whatsoever, including, but
not limited to, loading or unloading, but this subsection shall not apply when
any official traffic control signal or sign requires a driver of a vehicle to
stop. Notwithstanding the foregoing, parking on Hillside Drive and Hillview
Drive shall be and is hereby permitted, except between the hours and at such
times that such parking is prohibited as provided in Subsection D below.
   D.   Night and Winter Parking; Restricted Hours: It shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle to park said vehicle or for the owner of said vehicle
to permit said vehicle to be parked on any street in the Village between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day, or at
any time after snow begins to fall and for a period of twelve (12) hours after
snow stops falling, if the snow on the streets exceeds two inches (2") in
depth, provided that said parking restriction shall continue during snow
removal operations until completed, and except in any fire lane(s) as described
in Paragraph G below.
   E.   Parking Limited to Hard Surface: It shall be unlawful to park on any
private property located within the Village except within the confines of a
hard surface driveway (as defined in Section 6-4-5 of this Code) or within the
confines of a parking lot with such a hard surface.
      Notwithstanding the forgoing prohibitions:
      1.   Parking of vehicles shall be permitted on any gravel driveway
existing as of July 1, 2011, on any private property located within any
Residential Zoning District within the Village as designated on the Official
Zoning Map of the Village.
      2.   The temporary pParking of vehicles shall be permitted on other than
a hard surface driveway on any private property located within any Residential
Zoning District within the Village as designated on the Official Zoning Map of
the Village for a period or periods of time during any calendar month not to
exceed in the aggregate more than any portion of three (3) days.
   F.   Parking for Handicapped Persons:
      1.   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities, as
defined by Section 1-159.1 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, pursuant to
Sections 3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, or
to a disabled veteran pursuant to Section 3-609 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle
Code, as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with
disabilities or disabled veteran, in any parking place, including any private
or public off-street parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of
an official sign as designated under Section 11-301 of the Illinois Motor
Vehicle Code, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates. Any motor
vehicle bearing a person with disabilities license plate or a person with
disabilities parking decal or device containing the international symbol of
access issued to persons with disabilities by any local authority, state,
district, territory or foreign country shall be recognized by State and local
authorities as a valid license plate or device and receive the same parking
privileges as residents of Illinois.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, any person found
guilty of violating the provisions of this subsection F shall be fined the
minimum fine as provided from time to time by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code
in addition to any costs or charges connected with the authorized removal or
storage of any motor vehicle under this subsection F. Each day a violation
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   G.   Parking in Fire Lanes Prohibited: It shall be prohibited to park, stop
or allow to stand any motor vehicle at any time or for any length of time on
any private or public property in any area posted by signs as a "Fire Lane" or
designated as a "Fire Lane" by a yellow curb, or otherwise designated as a
"Fire Lane".
   H.   Truck and Trailer Parking in Residential Areas: It shall be unlawful
for the owner, operator or person having custody of or responsibility for any
truck or trailer to park such truck or trailer, or allow such truck or trailer
to be parked, on any street in the Village where the property adjacent to said
street, on either side thereof, is classified as part of any Residential Zoning
District as designated on the Official Zoning Map of the Village for a period
longer than two (2) hours unless such truck or trailer is actually engaged in
loading and unloading for a longer period. Nothing herein is intended to or
shall be construed as amending any ordinance providing for parking for a lesser
period of time or prohibiting parking. (Ord. 2011-O-18, 7-7-2011; amd. Ord.
2013-O-03, 2-5-2013; Ord. 2025-O-01, 1-14-2025)
5-3-2: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS:
Where signs or curb markings have been erected upon any street as authorized
herein indicating that parking, standing or stopping is prohibited or is
prohibited during designated hours or prohibited for a longer time than is
designated, or limited to a specific manner of parking, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park, stand or stop any vehicle on said street in violation
of any such signs or curb markings. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-3-3: NOTICE ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
5-3-4: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
5-3-5: RELOCATION OF VEHICLES IN EMERGENCIES:
When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
street, the village is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any such
vehicle from one location to any other location. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-3-6: REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO SPECIFIC INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Kelsey Road And Illinois Route 22 (Half Day Road):
      1.   Parking shall not be permitted and is hereby prohibited on Route 22,
seven hundred feet (700') west and seven hundred feet (700') east of the
centerline of Kelsey Road.
      2.   No person shall install, place, maintain or construct any structure
that encroaches upon the right of way for that portion of Route 22 located
seven hundred feet (700') west and seven hundred feet (700') east of the
centerline of Kelsey Road or upon the right of way for that portion of Kelsey
Road located six hundred feet (600') north and six hundred feet (600') south of
the centerline of Route 22.
      3.   No person shall discharge any sanitary waste or industrial
wastewater into any storm sewer or drainage facility constructed as part of the
Route 22/Kelsey Road intersection improvements located on Route 22, seven
hundred feet (700') west and seven hundred feet (700') east of the centerline
of Kelsey Road, and located on Kelsey Road six hundred feet (600') north and
six hundred feet (600') south of the centerline of Route 22.
   B.   Kelsey-Plum Tree Road And U.S. Route 14 (Northwest Highway):
      1.   Parking shall not be permitted and is hereby prohibited on Route 14,
on Kelsey Road, and on Plum Tree Road within the corporate limits of the
village of Lake Barrington.
      2.   No person shall install, place, maintain or construct any structure
that encroaches upon any portion of the respective rights of way for Route 14,
Kelsey Road, and/or Plum Tree Road within the corporate limits of the village
of Lake Barrington.
      3.   No person shall discharge any sanitary waste or industrial
wastewater directly or indirectly into any storm sewer or drainage facility
constructed as part of the Route 14/Kelsey-Plum Tree Road intersection
improvements located within any portion of the respective rights of way of
Route 14, Kelsey Road, and/or Plum Tree Road within the corporate limits of the
village of Lake Barrington.
      4.   No person shall be permitted to make any driveway entrance opening
into the curbs as constructed or to construct additional entrance(s), private
or commercial, along U.S. Route 14 within the corporate limits of the village
of Lake Barrington without the consent of the state of Illinois department of
transportation. (Ord. 2011-O-19, 9-6-2011)
5-3-7: POLICE OFFICER:
For purposes of this chapter, the following shall be applicable:
In addition to their usual meanings, the terms "police officer" and "law
enforcement officer" or any other similar term or terms as used throughout this
chapter shall also include and mean and refer to a village marshal and/or
deputy village marshal, if there are any, and any police or law enforcement
officers of another village or of Lake County serving the village by
intergovernmental agreement. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-3-8: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Notice On Illegally Parked Vehicle: Whenever any vehicle is parked in
violation of the provisions of this chapter and/or any ordinance prohibiting or
restricting parking and there is no person in attendance upon such parked
vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a traffic violation notice to
appear in court or administrative notice of violation to answer the charge of
such violation, any police officer observing such violation may attach to the
vehicle used in such violation a written administrative notice of violation so
that the person in whose name such vehicle is registered may appear in court or
before the village administrative hearing officer at a specified location on a
certain day and at a designated courtroom or other specified location to be
named in such notice and answer to the charge of such violation. It shall be
unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the vehicle to which said
notice is attached, to remove the same from said vehicle.
   B.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in
violation of any of the provisions of any ordinance or requirement of this code
prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to
the penalty therefor; provided, however, no person who is the lessor of a
vehicle pursuant to a written lease agreement shall be liable for the violation
of any ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking involving such vehicle
during the period of the lease unless such lessor fails to provide the name,
address, and driver's license number of the lessee within sixty (60) days of
receipt by such lessor of a request by the village for such information made
within one hundred twenty (120) days after the violation occurred. (Ord. 2013-
O-03, 2-5-2013)
5-3-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The police department serving the village shall issue a citation or
arrest ticket or administrative notice of violation in the case of each motor
vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Such citation or
arrest ticket or administrative notice of violation shall be placed upon the
motor vehicle and shall constitute service of a notice to appear in court or
before the village's administrative hearing officer, as the case may be, on the
owners and operator thereof. The penalty for any violation of the provisions of
this chapter unless otherwise specified shall be as specified from time to time
in section
1-10-7 of this code, provided, however, that penalties for particular
violations shall be assessed and may be settled, compromised and paid as set
forth in section
1-10-7 of this code.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation of this code, provided that the fine for such violation may be
settled by prepayment as provided in section
1-10-7 of this code.
(Ord. 2013-O-03, 2-5-2013)
5-3-10: REGULATION OF UNSCHEDULED STOPS AND UNLOADING OF PASSENGERS BY
INTERCITY VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: The terms used in this Section
5-3-10 shall be defined as follows:
   APPLICATION: A request for approval to stop and unload passengers in the
Village on a form to be provided by the Village Administrator, or his or her
designee, that meets all of the requirements of this Section
5-3-10.
   APPROVAL: A written notice signed by the Village Administrator after
consultation with the Lake County Sheriff, or their respective designee(s),
which approves an Application submitted in conformance with this Section
5-3-10.
   INTERCITY VEHICLE: Any bus, recreational vehicle, or other vehicle used for
transporting more than six (6) individuals and/or their respective personal
property between the Village and locations outside of the Village, but shall
not include or apply to:
   A.   Vehicles owned or leased by the Village or the Regional Transportation
Authority, including but not limited to the suburban bus commonly known as
"Pace";
   B.   School buses while providing transportation services to schools and/or
to other educational institutions;
   C.   Taxicabs, limousines, ridesharing vehicles, including Ubers and Lyfts,
or similar vehicles used for private hire by persons working or residing within
the Village or by persons visiting a specific residence or place of business
located within the Village when allowed or authorized by the owner of the
property;
   D.   Nor shall it apply to the disembarking of passengers arriving in the
Village for purposes of participating in Village-sponsored event(s);
   E.   A commercial undertaking for an existing Village business or
businesses, such as but not limited to, for example, the Lake Barrington Shore
Golf Club; or
   F.   A private event sponsored by an individual or individuals such as a
wedding or party for which transportation has been arranged in advance; any bus
or similar vehicle serving the respective residents of Lake Barrington Woods or
Lake Barrington Shores on a regular basis.
   LAKE COUNTY SHERIFF: The Lake County, Illinois, Sheriff, or his or her
designee.
   REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: A transportation service that operates trips
involving the dropping off of passengers in the Village on a predictable and
recurring basis, following a schedule that is published in advance and
available to the general public, and provides service in exchange for paying a
fare.
   UNSCHEDULED STOP: By Intercity Vehicle(s) means any location in the Village
where individuals are dropped off by an Intercity Vehicle that originated from
a location outside of the Village by a private or public transportation service
that is not providing regularly scheduled transportation service within the
Village and not operating pursuant to the written approval of the Village
Administrator, after consultation with the Lake County Sheriff, pursuant to
this Section
5-3-10.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The Village Administrator of the Village of Lake
Barrington or his or her designee.
   B.   No Unscheduled Stops by Intercity Vehicles: It shall be a violation of
this Section for the owner, operator, or driver of any Intercity Vehicle to
make an Unscheduled Stop for the purpose of dropping off passengers in the
Village.
   C.   The parking, stopping, or standing of an Intercity Vehicle is
prohibited by this Section unless such vehicle has the prior written approval
of the Village Administrator in consultation with the Lake County Sheriff or
their respective designee(s) as required by this Section, and no exception to
this regulation shall be granted and/or provided unless expressly stated in
this Section.
   D.   Application Required: The owner, operator, or driver of any Intercity
Vehicle that is not providing Regularly Scheduled Service within the Village
that desires to make a stop to drop off passengers in the Village shall submit
an Application to the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, using a
form provided by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee. The
completed Application and all required information shall be submitted to the
Village Administrator for his or her approval, after consultation with the Lake
County Sheriff, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date of the
proposed drop-off. The Application shall provide the following information,
including but not limited to:
      1.   The full name, full address, telephone numbers and email address(es)
of the Owner(s), Operator(s), and Driver(s) of the Intercity Vehicle. The
mobile phone number of the driver of the Intercity Vehicle shall also be
provided.
      2.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers
and email address(es) of the entity or individual(s) that has or have either
directed, paid for, or financed the transport of the persons to be dropped off
in the Village by the Intercity Vehicle.
      3.   The full name of all persons that are proposed to be dropped off in
the Village along with copies of valid identification for each such person to
the extent that such identification exists or is or are in the possession of
each such passenger.
      4.   The name, address, or location in the Village at which the Intercity
Vehicle proposes to drop off passengers.
      5.   The date and time at which the passengers of the Intercity Vehicle
will be dropped off in the Village which shall only be allowed to occur between
the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. to five o’clock (5:00) p.m. on a Monday
through Friday, excluding any holidays.
      6.   The name and address of all locations from which the passengers of
any such Intercity Vehicle are being picked up for transport to the Village.
      7.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers,
as well as all email addresses of all entities or individuals that shall be
present in the Village to meet the subject Intercity Vehicle and receive the
passengers when they are dropped off.
      8.   A detailed plan shall be submitted to the Village Administrator
together with each such Application identifying how and for what period of time
the individuals being dropped off will be cared for, housed, and fed, either
temporarily or permanently, upon being dropped off in the Village. The plan
shall include the full names, full addresses, and land-line and mobile
telephone numbers as well as all of the respective email address(es) of all
persons that will be present at the date and time of the drop-off and
responsible for the care, housing and feeding of the passengers. The plan shall
be executed by the person(s) and/or by an authorized representative of the
entity that agrees to be responsible for the care of the individuals proposed
to be dropped off within the Village and by at least one (1) additional
individual who shall be required to be present to receive any such passengers
and be responsible for their care. The entity and the individual that will be
present to receive the passengers and be responsible for their care shall each
by their signature certify that such person and/or entity will be responsible
for providing the actions detailed in the plan.
   E.   Approval of Application:
      1.   Within five (5) business days after receipt of a fully completed
Application pursuant to this Section 5-3-10, the Village Administrator, in
consultation with the Lake County Sheriff shall review same to verify its truth
and accuracy. If the Application is not complete, the Village Administrator
shall, in writing, advise the Applicant of any additional information and/or
terms needed to complete the Application. Failure of any person or entity to
provide all required information to the Village Administrator will cause any
such Application to be rejected by the Village.
      2.   The review of the Application by the Village Administrator in
consultation with the Lake County Sheriff shall take into consideration
administrative efficiency and available resources, public safety, and orderly
traffic flow, and an approval shall be subject to such conditions and
restrictions that the Village Administrator in consultation with the Lake
County Sheriff may impose in their respective sole discretion (including
without limitation, those addressing day/time availability of any such location
(s), number of daily arrivals/departures to and from any such location(s), and
advance notification requirements by the Applicant).
      3.   Within five (5) business days after receipt by the Village
Administrator of a fully-completed Application, the Village Administrator, in
consultation with the Lake County Sheriff, shall approve or deny such
Application in writing. If the Village Administrator, in consultation with the
Lake County Sheriff, denies an Application, it shall be based upon a
determination that the loading/unloading of passengers, luggage or other
personal property within the Village at that time, or at that particular
designated bus stop, bus stand, passenger loading/unloading zone or other
location presents an unreasonable threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public and/or impedes the safe and efficient flow of traffic and/or imposes
an unreasonable burden on available resources and/or based upon a determination
that any information in the Application is false, untrue, and/or inaccurate in
any manner. If the Village Administrator, in consultation with the Lake County
Sheriff, denies the Application, the Village Administrator shall send by email
or by regular U.S. mail a written notification to the Applicant specifying the
reason(s) for the decision. Any Applicant may seek review of the decision of
the Village Administrator denying such Application through the Administrative
Adjudication System of the Village by filing a request for review of such
decisions within twenty-one (21) days.
      4.   If the Village Administrator, in consultation with the Lake County
Sheriff, finds that the Application meets the requirements of Paragraph 3 above
and approves the Application, the Village Administrator shall inform the
Applicant in writing via email and by regular U.S. mail that the Application is
approved. The Village Administrator shall further provide a telephone number to
the Applicant or to the driver of the respective Intercity Vehicle to
coordinate the arrival of such Intercity Vehicle in the Village.
      5.   The Village Administrator, after consultation with the Lake County
Sheriff, may also require certified medical documentation that all passengers
are not presently, and have not within the last thirty (30) days prior to the
date of unloading, been diagnosed or has contracted any contagious disease such
as malaria, tuberculosis, or such other contagious disease that, if spread to
others, would adversely affect others' health, safety, or welfare; provided,
however, that such certification shall not be required of domiciled residents
of the United States who have not, within the last thirty (30) days prior to
unloading, traveled to a country experiencing an outbreak of any such
contagious disease.
   F.   Violations: It shall be a violation of this Section
5-3-10 for any individual or entity to violate any of the provisions of this
Section 5-3-10 and/or engage in the following action(s):
      1.   The submission of an Application that is false or untrue in any
manner.
      2.   The failure of any entity or individual that is responsible for the
care, housing, or feeding of any passengers dropped off in the Village to
promptly implement the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved
Application.
      3.   Making an Unscheduled Stop by an Intercity Vehicle or Bus in the
Village.
      4.   Initiating any transportation of person(s) and/or property to the
Village without the required approval by the Village Administrator, in
consultation with the Lake County Sheriff, of the stop location without
submitting an Application and/or failing to obtain approval of an Application
as required by this Section 5-3-10.
   G.   Penalties: Any person or entity found liable pursuant to the Village's
Administrative Adjudication System and/or pursuant to the finding of any court
of competent jurisdiction, of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this Section 5-3-10, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a mandatory fine of not less than Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00)
for each offense. A separate offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person or entity shall continue any such violation, or permit
any such violation to exist after notification thereof. The Village at its
discretion may enforce this Section
5-3-10 by:
      1.   A quasi-criminal action seeking the payment of a monetary penalty
adjudicated pursuant to the Administrative Adjudication System of the Village;
and/or
      2.   An action seeking monetary and injunctive relief filed in the
Circuit Court of Lake County or any other Court having jurisdiction over the
violator.
   H.   Seizure and Impoundment of Intercity Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever Village Administrator or the Lake County Sheriff, or their
respective designee(s), has reason to believe that a violation of this Section
5-3-10 has occurred, the Intercity Vehicle may be subject to seizure and
impoundment by the Lake County Sheriff in addition to any other monetary
penalty or other remedy that the Village may pursue. The Lake County Sheriff
may, in the exercise of his or her discretion, provide for the towing of such
Intercity Vehicle to a facility approved by the Lake County Sheriff.
      2.   Upon the towing of any such Intercity Vehicle pursuant to this
Section, the Lake County Sheriff shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to
notify the owner of record, lessee, person claiming to be the owner or lessee,
or any person who is found to be in control of the Intercity Vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle
owner's right to request an administrative hearing on such seizure.
   I.   Administrative Tow Hearing;
      1.   Within five (5) business days after an Intercity Vehicle is seized
and impounded as provided by this Section
5-3-10, the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, in consultation with
the Lake County Sheriff, shall notify, by personal service, first class mail,
or certified mail, the owner of record, lessee, and any lienholder of record of
the owner's right to request a hearing to determine whether a violation of this
Section 5-3-10 actually occurred. The name and address of the person to whom a
vehicle is registered as shown on the records of the State in which the vehicle
is registered shall be conclusive evidence of the name and address of the owner
of record of the vehicle, unless the owner of record gave the Village actual
written notice of a different name or address.
      2.   In order to obtain a hearing, the owner of record must file a
written request for a hearing with the Village Administrator, or his or her
designee, no later than ten (10) business days after the date the notice was
mailed. The hearing date must be scheduled for a date that is no more than
fifteen (15) business days after a request for a hearing has been filed. The
person requesting the hearing shall be given at least five (5) business days'
notice of the date of the hearing.
      3.   The hearing shall be conducted by the Administrative Adjudication
Hearing Officer (the "Hearing Officer") of the Village appointed in accordance
with Chapter 17, "Administrative Adjudication System", of Title 1,
"Administration", of this Village Code. The owner of the Intercity Vehicle
shall have the right to be represented by an attorney; the right to notice of
the charges causing the seizure and impoundment of the Intercity Vehicle; the
right to present witness and documentary evidence, and the right to cross-
examine all witnesses.
      4.   If, after the hearing, the Administrative Adjudication Hearing
Officer determines, by a preponderance of evidence, that a violation of this
Section 5-3-10 has occurred involving the seized and impounded Intercity
Vehicle or Bus, then the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall
enter an order finding the owner of record of the vehicle liable to the Village
for the administrative fee of Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($750.00), which
shall be in addition to any other penalties, mandatory fine(s) and remedy
sought by the Village.
      5.   If, after a hearing, the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer
does not determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the vehicle was
used in violation of Section 5-3-10 of this Code, the Administrative
Adjudication Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and
ordering the return of the vehicle.
      6.   If the owner of record fails to request a hearing on the seizure and
impoundment of an Intercity Vehicle in a timely manner or fails to appear at
the hearing, the owner of record shall be deemed to have waived the owner's
right to a hearing, and the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer may
enter a default order in favor of the Village in the amount of the
administrative fee(s). However, if the owner of record pays such fee(s) and the
vehicle is returned to the owner, no default order need be entered if the owner
is informed of his or her right to a hearing and executes a written waiver of
such right to a hearing, in which case, an order of liability shall be deemed
to have been made when the Village receives the written waiver.
   J.   Requirements for Recovery of a Seized and Impounded Intercity Vehicle
or Bus: A vehicle impounded pursuant to this Section 5-3-10 shall remain
impounded until:
      1.   The administrative fee(s) of Seven Hundred and Fifty Dollars
($750.00) are paid to the Village or the Lake County Sheriff and all applicable
towing fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case, the owner of record
shall be given possession of the Intercity Vehicle; or
      2.   A bond in the amount of Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) is
posted with the Village and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, at which time, the Intercity Vehicle will be released to the owner of
record; or
      3.   The Intercity Vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case, it shall
be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned
vehicles.
   K.   Posting Bond:
      1.   If a bond in the amount of Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) is
posted with the Lake County Sheriff's Department or with the Village Treasurer,
the impounded Intercity Vehicle shall be released to the owner of record,
provided, however, the owner of the Intercity Vehicle or Bus shall still be
liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
      2.   If, after an Administrative Hearing on the seizure and impoundment
of the Intercity Vehicle or Bus, it is determined that the Intercity Vehicle
was used in violation of Section
5-3-10, the posted bond shall be forfeited to the Village; however, if a
violation of Section
5-3-10 is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond, and all towing fees shall be waived.
      3.   All bond money posted pursuant to this Chapter shall be held by the
Village until the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer issues a decision
or, if there is a judicial review, until a final order is entered in the
judicial proceeding in which review is sought.
   L.   Disposition of an Unclaimed Intercity Vehicle: Any Intercity Vehicle
that is not reclaimed or subject to judicial review within thirty-five (35)
days after the Village's Administrative Hearing Officer issues a final written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2024-O-02, 1-17-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Thirty Five Miles Per Hour
5-4-2: Thirty Miles Per Hour
5-4-3: Twenty Five Miles Per Hour
5-4-4: Twenty Miles Per Hour
5-4-5: State And County Jurisdiction
5-4-1: THIRTY FIVE MILES PER HOUR:
Based upon a traffic or engineering investigation, the reasonable and safe
absolute maximum speed limit upon any roads, streets or highways within the
village and subject to the jurisdiction of the village as hereinafter
specified, is hereby established at thirty five (35) miles per hour. It shall
be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any of the following roads, streets
or highways in the village at a speed in excess of thirty five (35) miles per
hour:
Anderson Road
(Ord. 2006-O-37, 11-13-2006)
5-4-2: THIRTY MILES PER HOUR:
Based upon a traffic or engineering investigation, the reasonable and safe
absolute maximum speed limit upon those roads, streets or highways within the
village and subject to the jurisdiction of the village as hereinafter specified
is hereby established as thirty (30) miles per hour. It shall be unlawful to
drive any motor vehicle on any of the following roads, streets or highways in
the village at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour:
Cuba Road
Harbor Road (from Route 22)
Indian Trail Road
Pepper Road
(Ord. 2006-O-37, 11-13-2006)
5-4-3: TWENTY FIVE MILES PER HOUR:
Based upon a traffic or engineering investigation, the reasonable and safe
absolute maximum speed limit upon those roads, streets or highways within the
village and subject to the jurisdiction of the village as hereinafter specified
is hereby established as twenty five (25) miles per hour. It shall be unlawful
to drive any motor vehicle on any of the following roads, streets or highways
in the village at a speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour:
Alice Lane
Apache Drive
Bark Court
Beacon Drive
Blackhawk Lane
Blarney Court
Blue Aster Lane
Blue Grass Court
Bridgewater Court
Brookside Court
Brookside Way
Brookside Way West
Buoy Court
Casey Court
Cayuga Trail
Cherokee Drive
Chesapeake Drive
Chippewa Court
   Coneflower Drive
Countryside Court
Countryside Drive
Cove Court
Coventry Court
Coventry Lane
   Coyote Trail
Cranberry Lane
Crestview Lane
Cutter Lane
Dock Drive
Driftwood Court
Dublin Way
East Lane
East Savannah Trail
   Enclave Lane
Farm View Circle
Fieldstone Court
Flint Creek Drive
Flint Drive
Golfview Lane
Grandview Drive
Gray Barn Court
Gray Barn Lane
Grayshire Lane
Greenbriar Court
Harbor Road (Barrington Harbor Estates)
   Hawks Nest Circle
Henry Lane
Hickory Ridge
Hillfarm Court
Hillfarm Road
Indian Trail Road
Iroquois Court
Junegrass Drive
Kelsey Point
Kensington Court
Lakeland Drive
Lakeridge Drive
Lakeview Drive (Flint Lake Estates)
Lakeview Drive, North (Lakeland Estates)
Lakeview Drive, South (Lakeland Estates)
Linden Drive
Longview Point
Lookout Pointe Road
McGraw Court
Meadow Lane
Meadow Rose Court
Meadow View Court
Oak Court
Oak Hills Road
Old Barrington Court (formerly known as "North Avenue")
Old Barrington Road
Oneida Lane
Owl Court
Pawnee Road
Pointe Court
Rivers Bend Court
Rivers Bend Drive
   Savannah Court
   Savannah Trail
Schooner Lane
Tioga Trail
Tuscarora Court
Twin Pond Road
Vance Court
Vista Lane
Wedgewood Lane
Welch Circle
Wellington Court
West Lane
   West Savannah Trail
White Pine Drive
Wienecke Court
Woodland Drive
(Ord. 2006-O-37, 11-13-2006; amd. Ord. 2015-O-06, 4-8-2015)
5-4-4: TWENTY MILES PER HOUR:
Based upon a traffic or engineering investigation, the reasonable and safe
absolute maximum speed limit upon those roads, streets or highways within the
village and subject to the jurisdiction of the village as hereinafter specified
is hereby established as twenty (20) miles per hour. It shall be unlawful to
drive any motor vehicle on any of the following roads, streets or highways in
the village at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour:
Classic Court
Commercial Avenue
Hillside Drive
Hillview Drive
Industrial Avenue
(Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992; amd. Ord. 94-O-20, 8-16-1994; 1996 Code)
5-4-5: STATE AND COUNTY JURISDICTION:
Any speed limit established and posted by the applicable authority which
differs from those limits herein set forth shall govern any road, street or
highway within the village which is under the jurisdiction of the Illinois
department of transportation or for which a county highway department has
maintenance responsibility. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992; amd. Ord. 94-O-20, 8-16-
1994)
CHAPTER 5
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Stop Intersection Locations
5-5-2: Prohibited Parking
5-5-3: Emergency Access Locations
5-5-1: STOP INTERSECTION LOCATIONS:
Traffic signs, bearing the word "Stop" shall be installed at the following
places:
Westbound Brookside Way at Harbor Road.
Eastbound West Brookside Way at Harbor Road.
Eastbound Cayuga Trail at the intersection with Cayuga Trail.
Southeastbound Chesapeake at Old Barrington Road.
Southwestbound Chesapeake at Old Barrington Road.
Westbound Commercial Avenue at Pepper Road.
Northeastbound Countryside Court at Countryside Drive.
Southwestbound Countryside Court at Countryside Drive.
Southwestbound Crestview at Old Barrington Road.
Southbound Flynn Creek Road at Cuba Road.
Eastbound Golfview at Old Barrington Road.
Southbound Grayshire Lane at Old Barrington Road.
Westbound Industrial Avenue at Pepper Road.
Northeastbound Lakeview Drive at Old Barrington Road.
Northbound Meadow Lane at Harbor Road.
Northeastbound Old Barrington Court at Old Barrington Road.
Southbound Pawnee at Apache.
Northeastbound Pawnee Road at Indian Trail Road.
Northbound Woodland at Old Barrington Road.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey or refuse to comply
with the aforesaid "Stop" signs in the operation of any motor vehicle at the
aforesaid intersections. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-2-2001)
5-5-2: PROHIBITED PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park, stand or stop any motor vehicle
within the area indicated below:
 
Street       Limits           
                    At all times on both sides of Grandview Drive where
Grandview Drive     Grandview Drive is adjacent to North Barrington School and
                    on the south and east side of the balance of Grandview
                    Drive to its cul-de- sac terminus.
                    On the west side of Illinois Route 59 from a point three
Illinois Route 59   hundred feet (300') north of Miller Road to the centerline
                    of Miller Road.
                    At all times on both sides of Lakeland Drive from Anderson
Lakeland Drive      Road to the intersection of Lakeland Drive and Lakeview
                    Drive.
                    On the north side of Miller Road from a point three hundred
Miller Road         feet (300') west of the centerline of Illinois Route 59 to
                    the centerline of Illinois Route 59.
 
(Ord. 2013-O-17, 11-5-2013)
5-5-3: EMERGENCY ACCESS LOCATIONS:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, a "vehicle" is defined as
every device in or upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved or used by human
power, and the term "vehicular" refers to all such "vehicles". The term
"vehicle" includes, but is not limited to, both motor vehicles and trailers.
   B.   Emergency Access Locations Closed To Regular Vehicular Traffic:
      1.   The following emergency access locations within the village which
have been authorized and/or approved by the village are hereby closed to all
vehicular traffic except as permitted by this section:
         a.   Between Flint Drive, a village right of way, in Flint Lake
Subdivision and Hawk's Nest Circle, a private right of way in the Enclave At
Heritage Estates Subdivision.
         b.   Between Savannah Court, a village right of way in the Savannah
Subdivision, and Highway 22, an Illinois highway, across the property of
Citizens For Conservation, Inc.
      2.   Only the following persons and vehicles shall be authorized to use
such emergency access locations:
         a.   Authorized emergency vehicles and emergency personnel at all
times.
         b.   Any person or persons specifically authorized to perform
maintenance on said emergency access easement(s) by the board of trustees, by
the village president, or his designee, by the village administrator, or by the
village engineer.
   C.   Penalties: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense,
and each day on which a violation occurs or continues to exist shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 2005-O-33, 10-4-2005)
CHAPTER 6
WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
5-6-1: General Provisions; Overweight Vehicles
5-6-2: Temporary Prohibition Of Certain Classes Of Vehicles
5-6-3: Exceptions
5-6-4: Enforcement And General Penalties
5-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS; OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES:
The maximum weight limitations set forth in this chapter are hereby imposed on
the designated roads, streets and highways under the jurisdiction of the
village, which maximum weight limitations shall be effective when appropriate
regulatory signs giving notice thereof are erected on such roads, streets and
highways. Except as specifically provided in section
5-6-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle (including,
but not limited to, any truck, tractor, trailer or combination of units, or
other commercial vehicle with or without accompanying load) with a gross weight
of eight thousand one (8,001) pounds or greater (maximum weight limitation) on
the following street(s) within the village:
Alice Lane.
Anderson Road. (Ord. 2008-O-27, 10-7-2008)
5-6-2: TEMPORARY PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN CLASSES OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Condition Of Roadway: Whenever any road, street or highway, or parts
thereof, under the jurisdiction of this village, by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions, may be seriously damaged or destroyed
by the use of trucks or other commercial vehicles, the operation of said
vehicles thereon shall be prohibited or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
   B.   Resolution To Prohibit: The chairperson of the village roads committee
or the village president are hereby authorized to determine and designate the
time and the roads, streets or highways, or parts thereof, which may be so
seriously damaged or destroyed as above provided, and shall so advise the board
of trustees of the village. The board of trustees, by resolution, may prohibit
the operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles over and upon such roads,
streets or highways, or parts thereof, so designated, provided that said
prohibition shall not exceed ninety (90) days in any one calendar year.
   C.   Erection Of Signs: Upon enacting such resolution, the board of trustees
shall cause to be erected and maintained regulatory signs designating the
provision of the resolution at each end of that portion of any road, street or
highway, or parts thereof, affected thereby; and the resolution shall not be
effective unless and until such signs are erected and maintained.
   D.   Emergency Conditions:
      1.   Action By President Or Chairperson Of The Roads Committee: If the
president of the village or the chairperson of the roads committee shall
determine that any roads, streets or highways, or parts thereof, might suffer
serious damage prior to the time in which the board of trustees could meet for
the purpose of taking remedial action as provided in subsections B and C of
this section, then in such emergency the president or the chairperson of the
roads committee may act alone in prohibiting the operation of trucks or other
commercial vehicles over and upon such roads, streets or highways, or parts
thereof, or in restricting the permissible weight thereof, and may direct the
erection of regulatory signs at each end of such streets, roads or highways, or
parts thereof, affected thereby.
      2.   Confirmation Or Rejection Of Emergency By Board: The board of
trustees, at its next regular meeting called after action taken by the
president or the chairperson of the roads committee, as provided above, shall
either confirm said action by resolution or extend said prohibition for a
period not to exceed ninety (90) days; or, by resolution, direct that the signs
be removed and declare that no emergency exists. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter governing size, weight and load shall
not apply to:
      1.   Fire apparatus;
      2.   Equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned or operated by
any governmental body or required or directed by the village;
      3.   Implements of husbandry temporarily operated or towed in a
combination upon a road, street or highway in this village, provided that such
combination does not consist of more than three (3) vehicles or, in the case of
having fresh, perishable fruits or vegetables from farm to the point of first
processing, not more than three (3) wagons being towed by an implement of
husbandry (as defined in section 1-130 of the Illinois motor vehicle code);
      4.   School buses (as defined in section 1-182 of the Illinois motor
vehicle code).
   B.   The provisions of this chapter governing weight shall not apply to:
      1.   Vehicles (including loads) operated by a public utility when
transporting equipment required for emergency repair of public utility
facilities or properties or vehicles transporting equipment required for the
emergency repair of water wells;
      2.   Trucks used exclusively for garbage or refuse disposal equipped with
self-compactors but not containing industrial roll-off hoists and roll-off
containers, provided that such vehicles do not exceed the following weight
limitations:
      22,000 pounds per single axle,
      40,000 pounds per tandem axle,
      54,000 pounds gross vehicle weight; or
      3.   A tow truck under instructions from a police officer to legally
clear, remove or impound a vehicle. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
5-6-4: ENFORCEMENT AND GENERAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation; Fine: Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or any other maximum axle or gross weight limit
specified on a regulatory sign in this village, both the owner and driver of
such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such violation and either the owner or
driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person
convicted of any violation of this chapter and/or any other maximum axle or
gross limit specified on a regulatory sign within this village shall be fined
according to the schedule as provided in section 15-113 of the Illinois motor
vehicle code 1 , as amended from time to time.
   B.   Fine For Subsequent Convictions: In addition, any person convicted of
four (4) or more violations of any provisions of this chapter, or any other
maximum axle or gross weight limit specified on a regulatory sign in this
village, within any twelve (12) month period shall be fined an additional
amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the fourth and each
subsequent conviction within the twelve (12) month period; provided, however,
that with regard to a firm or corporation, a fourth or subsequent conviction
shall mean a fourth or subsequent conviction attributable to any one employee-
driver. (Ord. 92-O-30, 9-1-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-113.
CHAPTER 7
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definition
5-7-2: Nuisance Declared
5-7-3: Exceptions
5-7-4: Notice Of Abatement Or Removal Order
5-7-5: Removal With Permission Of Owner Or Occupant
5-7-6: Disposal Of Inoperable Vehicles
5-7-7: Authority To Enforce
5-7-8: Obstruction To Traffic
5-7-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "inoperable motor vehicle" shall mean any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7) consecutive days, the
engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels
or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the
vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power. Inoperable
motor vehicle shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered
temporarily (i.e., for less than 7 consecutive days) incapable of being driven
under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
5-7-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The location or presence of any inoperable motor vehicles on any lot, tract,
parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, within the village shall be deemed a public nuisance and it shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to cause or maintain such public nuisance
by wrecking, dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or discarding his or
their vehicle or vehicles on the property of another or to suffer, permit or
allow the same to be placed, located, maintain or exist upon his, her or their
own real property or any premises leased or occupied by them. (Ord. 2011-O-15,
6-8-2011)
5-7-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed vehicle
dealer or a vehicle on the premises of a licensed business engaged in wrecking
or junking of vehicles, if such businesses are otherwise permitted by this
code. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
5-7-4: NOTICE OF ABATEMENT OR REMOVAL ORDER:
   A.   Located On Private Property: Whenever such public nuisance exists in
the village in violation hereof, the village and/or its agents shall give not
less than ten (10) days' notice to the owner of the real property, the occupant
or lessee, if any, of the premises whereon such public nuisance exists to abate
or remove the same, stating the nature of the public nuisance on private
property and that it must be removed and abated within ten (10) days and
further that a request for a hearing must be made before expiration of said ten
(10) day period by the aggrieved person, such notice to be mailed, by certified
or registered mail with a five (5) day return receipt requested and by regular
mail, to the owner, the occupant or the lessee of the private premises
whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice is returned undelivered by
the United States post office, official action to abate said nuisance shall be
delayed for not less than ten (10) days from the date of such return.
   B.   Located On Public Property Or Right Of Way: Whenever such public
nuisance exists in the village in violation hereof, the village and/or its
agents shall give not less than a ten (10) day notice, stating the nature of
the public nuisance on the public property or on a public right of way and that
it must be removed and abated within ten (10) days and further that a request
for a hearing must be made before expiration of said ten (10) day period, such
notice to be mailed, by certified or registered mail with a five (5) day return
receipt requested, to the owner, the occupant or the lessee of the public
premises or to the owner, the occupant or the lessee of the premises adjacent
to the public right of way whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice
is returned undelivered by the United States post office, official action to
abate said nuisance shall be delayed for not less than ten (10) days from the
date of such return.
   C.   Hearing: A public hearing prior to the removal of the vehicle or part
thereof as a public nuisance is to be held before a person designated by the
village president. When such a hearing is requested by the owner, the occupant
or the lessee of the public or private premises or by the owner, the occupant
or the lessee of the premises adjacent to the public right of way on which said
vehicle is located, within ten (10) days after service of notice to abate the
nuisance, any resolution or order requiring the removal of a vehicle or part
thereof shall include a description of the vehicle, and the correct
identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the
site. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
5-7-5: REMOVAL WITH PERMISSION OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
If within ten (10) days after receipt of notice from the village and/or its
agents to abate the nuisance, as herein provided, the owner, the occupant or
lessee of the premises shall give his written permission to the village for
removal of the inoperable motor vehicle from the premises, the removal shall be
at the expense of said owner. The giving of such permission shall be considered
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
5-7-6: DISPOSAL OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
If such public nuisance is not abated by said owner, occupant or lessee after
notice is given in accordance with this chapter, official action shall be taken
by the village to abate such nuisance. Inoperable vehicles or parts thereof may
be disposed of by removal to a scrapyard or demolishers for processing as scrap
or salvage. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
5-7-7: AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE:
Any law enforcement agency serving the village may enter upon private property
for the purposes specified in this chapter to examine vehicles or parts
thereof, obtain information as to the identity of vehicles and to remove or
cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter but shall comply with the fourth amendment of the
United States constitution. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
5-7-8: OBSTRUCTION TO TRAFFIC:
Nothing in this chapter shall affect statutes or ordinances that permit
immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property which constitutes an
obstruction to traffic. (Ord. 2011-O-15, 6-8-2011)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTIES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: General Provisions
6-1-3: Use Of Municipal Center
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PUBLIC PLACE: Any enclosed indoor area used by the public or serving as a place
of work.
SMOKING OR TO SMOKE: The act of inhaling and/or exhaling the smoke from or
carrying or possessing any form of lighted tobacco product(s), or the act of
inhaling, exhaling, or otherwise ingesting or using, vaporizing, or vaping
alternative nicotine products, smoking herbs, and/or smokeless tobacco products
as defined in section
2-3-29, "Tobacco Products And Alternative Nicotine Products", of this Code.
VAPING OR TO VAPE: The act of inhaling, exhaling, vaporizing, or otherwise
using or ingesting alternative nicotine product(s) as defined in section
2-3-29, "Tobacco Products And Alternative Nicotine Products", of this Code.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Any property owned by, leased to, dedicated to or offered for
dedication to the Village, including, but not limited to, the rights-of-way of
Village streets, except subsections 6-1-2B, V and X of this chapter shall not
be applicable to such rights-of-way. (Ord. 93-O-16, 6-1-1993; amd. Ord. 2018-O-
21, 10-9-2018)
6-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Games and Sports: No person shall engage in any sport, game or
amusement on Village property except on such portions thereof as may be
designated by the Village Board or the Village Administrator as its designee,
and then only under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by them.
   B.   Firearms and Fireworks: No person, other than authorized personnel,
shall carry or discharge firearms or air guns, or paint ball guns, or discharge
or set off any rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib or other fireworks or things
containing any substance of explosive nature on Village property.
   C.   Throwing Stones: No person shall throw or cast any stones or other
missiles within, onto or across Village property.
   D.   Vehicles: No person, other than authorized personnel, shall bring or
use any vehicle upon any Village property except in designated parking areas
and then only when said Village property is open to such person.
   E.   Hindering Employees: No person shall interfere with, or in any manner
hinder any employee of the Village while such employee is engaged in
constructing, repairing or caring for any Village property.
   F.   Offering Articles For Sale: No person shall conduct any commercial
activity, offer or exchange for sale any article or thing, do any hawking,
peddling, selling, or buying an article or thing, on Village property, except
when authorized to do so by permit from or contract with the President and
Board of Trustees (also referred to as "Village Board") or the Village
Administrator as its designee.
   G.   Public Meetings: No person or persons shall give any concert or public
entertainment of any kind on any Village property without express consent of
the Village Board or the Village Administrator as its designee, and then only
if the Village Board has been reasonably satisfied as to the evidence of
adequate liability insurance coverage naming the Village, and all its officers,
employees and agents as additional insured, has been provided for such event.
   H.   Restricted Parts of Village Property:
      1.   No person shall enter upon any portion of any Village property where
persons are prohibited from going by direction of any officer or employee of
the Village as indicated by sign or notice.
      2.   The metal pole barn and the other farm building and sheds located on
the Village property at 23585 N. Kelsey Road are closed to the public, unless
use thereof and/or access thereto is specifically authorized by the Village
Board, or by the Village Administrator as its designee.
   I.   Improper Speech and Conduct: No person shall use any abusive,
threatening, insulting, indecent, profane or obscene language, or language
calculated to occasion a breach of the peace, nor be guilty of any indecent act
or behavior on any Village property.
   J.   Supervision of Minor Children: All minor children who are present on
Village property shall be supervised by a parent or guardian.
   K.   Sleeping, Overnight Parking, And/Or Camping On Village Property: No
person shall sleep on any Village property between sunset and sunrise, and
overnight parking and/or camping on any Village property is prohibited, except
when authorized to do so by permit from the Village Board, or its designee.
   L.   Use of Playground Equipment by Adult Prohibited; Use of Pond on the
Village Property at 23872 N. Kelsey Road; Compliance with All Applicable Rules
and Regulations:
      1.   No adult person shall in any manner use any of the playground
apparatus or devices meant exclusively for the use of by children on Village
property.
      2.   Parties using recreational equipment maintained by the Village on
any property are required to comply with all posted rules and regulations
relative to the use of such equipment. This same provision is likewise
applicable to the use of the pond on the Village property at 23872 N. Kelsey
Road.
   M.   Gambling: No betting, wagering, or gambling is allowed on any Village
property at any time.
   N.   Fires: No person shall light or make use of any fire on any Village
property, except in such portions thereof as may be indicated by any officer or
employee of the Village for such purpose and then only under such regulations
and conditions as are prescribed by the Village Board or by the Village
Administrator as its designee.
   O.   Dumping Articles: No person shall deposit, dump, throw or place any
rubbish, including clippings of trees, shrubs or grass, or junk of any kind,
in, on, or upon any Village property. Paper, garbage or refuse matter shall not
be so deposited except in receptacles provided for that purpose.
   P.   Advertisements: No person shall display any placard or advertisement of
any kind on any Village property, nor shall any person distribute, cast, throw
or place any handbill, pamphlet, circular, advertisement, notice of any kind
nor post, stencil or otherwise affix any notice, or bills, advertisements or
other papers upon any structure or thing in or about such premises.
   Q.   Birds and Animals:
      1.   No person, except authorized personnel, shall trap, catch, wound or
attempt to trap, catch, wound or kill any bird or animal, to molest or rob any
nest of any bird or animal on any Village property.
      2.   All dogs must be kept on a leash when on any Village property, and
the person having ownership or control of such animal must immediately clean up
after their dogs to prevent nuisances to others.
   R.   Damage to Village Property: No person shall cut, break, climb on, or in
any way deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf or any of the buildings, fences or
bridges, lamps or posts or any other structure or property within or upon any
Village property.
   S.   Breach of Peace; Disorderly Conduct: No person shall make, countenance
or assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance, breach of the peace
or diversion tending to a breach of the peace, on any Village property, or be
guilty of any disorderly conduct therein, or collect with any persons, in
bodies and crowds, for unlawful purposes or for any purpose to the annoyance or
obstruction or disturbance of other persons.
   T.   Resisting or Interfering with Officer and Employees: No person shall
resist any officer or employee of the Village in the discharge of such
officer's duty, or fail or refuse to obey any lawful command of any such
employee or officer or in any way interfere with or hinder or prevent any such
officer or employee from discharging such officer's duty.
   U.   Hours of Operation: The hours of operation of all outdoor facilities
owned, maintained and/or controlled by the Village shall be open daily to the
public during the hours of sunrise and sunset, with the exception of the
Village’s Municipal Center (23860 N. Old Barrington Road), and the Village’s
properties at 23585 N. Kelsey Road and 23872 N. Kelsey Road, at which locations
the buildings and the structures and appurtenant parking areas thereon shall be
open for use during such hours as authorized from time to time by the Village
Board or the Village Administrator as its designate and so posted. It shall be
unlawful for a person or persons, other than authorized personnel conducting
official business to occupy or be present within or upon any Village property
during any hours which a Village property is not open to the public, unless
pursuant to a written agreement with the Village. Any section or part of a
Village property may be declared closed to the public by an officer or employee
of the Village at any time, for any interval of time, either temporarily or at
a regularly stated time.
   V.   No Loitering in Parking Lot: It shall be unlawful for a person or
persons to loiter in any of the parking lots controlled or owned by the
Village.
   W.   Noise Pollution: Unless specifically approved in advance by the Village
Board, no person shall generate any sound on any Village property by any means
so that:
      1.   The sound pressure level measured at a distance of ten feet (10') or
farther from the source exceeds eighty (80) decibels; or
      2.   The sound is audible at a distance of six hundred feet (600') or
more from the point of generation.
   X.   Alcoholic Liquor:
      1.   No person shall bring onto or within, sell, give away or drink any
alcoholic liquors on any Village property or on any public street, except: a)
alcoholic liquor may be transported on public highways, streets and alleys but
only in the original package and with the seal unbroken, except as otherwise
permitted by Section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act; or b) pursuant to
a Class K special temporary license approved by the Village President as the
Village's Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or by one of his deputies,
authorizing the use of specified locations on Village property, issued pursuant
to Subsection X. 2. of this Section and Subsection J of Section
2-3-6 of this Code.
      2.   A Class K special temporary liquor license for the use of specified
locations on Village property for the purpose of the temporary sale, delivery
and/or consumption on the licensed premises of alcoholic liquors may, in the
sole discretion of and with the specific approval of the Village President as
the Village's Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or by one of his deputies, be
issued as provided in Subsection
2-3-6(J) of this Code and provided all of the following conditions have been
met:
         a.   The written application for such Class K special temporary liquor
license shall state the time period for which the license shall be applicable
and shall state the specific location(s) on Village property where such
activity will take place.
         b.   The applicant shall qualify for and obtain a Class K special
temporary liquor license pursuant to this Code as determined by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
         c.   If the applicant proposes to sell alcoholic liquor on any Village
property, such a Class K special temporary liquor license shall be issued to an
applicant other than the Village only if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
or his or her designee has received written evidence that the Licensee has
obtained dramshop liability insurance coverage in the maximum coverage limits
in accordance with the Illinois Liquor Control Act, as such Act may be now or
as hereafter amended, and such insurance coverage shall name the Village and
all of its elected and appointed officials, employees and agents as additional
insureds.
         d.   A Class K special temporary liquor license shall not authorize
consumption of alcoholic liquor that was not purchased on the licensed
premises, which is otherwise known as Bring Your Own Bottle ("BYOB") as defined
in Section
2-3-2, "Definitions", of this Village Code, unless the applicant is the Village
or another governmental entity.
         e.   Each applicant other than the Village shall, prior to the use of
any Village property, file with the Village Clerk a certificate of insurance,
and such certificate shall provide a minimum of two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) per occurrence and in the aggregate of public liability and
liquor liability coverage, unless such minimum coverage amount is reduced by
the Village President in his or her discretion as the Village's Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, or by one of his or her deputies, based upon the nature
of the event, and such coverages shall name the Village, and all of its elected
and appointed officials, employees, and agents as additional insureds.
         f.   Unless waived by the Village President as the Village's Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, or by one of his deputies, prior to the issuance
of any special temporary license as authorized by this Subsection X.2., each
applicant for such a license, other than the Village, shall pay to the Village
the estimated cost of setup, cleanup, and restoration as well as the costs of
traffic and crowd control related to the event which shall include the costs of
any police department, fire department, or other Village personnel or
contractors utilized in conjunction with the event at a reasonable rate to be
determined by the Village Administrator or his or her designee, as well as any
third party costs when the Village Administrator determines that it is
reasonably necessary for the Village to contract for additional services in
conjunction with such an event. An estimate of such costs shall be provided to
each such applicant prior to the issuance of the license showing the basis of
the estimated costs. In the event that the estimated costs paid in advance
exceed the actual costs, the overage shall be refunded to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after such a determination has been made. Conversely, if the
actual costs exceed the estimated costs that have already been paid, the
applicant shall pay any unpaid balance of the actual costs within thirty (30)
days after being invoiced for same by the Village. In addition, each applicant,
other than the Village, shall agree in writing to and shall pay for any damage
resulting from such an event held on Village property.
   Y.   Smoking and/or Vaping Prohibited: No person shall smoke or vape in a
public place on any Village property except in that portion of a public place
which may be established by the Village Board as a smoking or vaping area.
(Ord. 93-O-16, 6-1-1993; amd. 1996 Code; Ord. 2018-O-17, 8-7-2018; Ord. 2018-O-
21, 10-9-2018; Ord. 2021-O-05, 3-2-2021; Ord. 2021-O-09, 7-6-2021; Ord. 2024-O-
15, 9-3-2024)
6-1-3: USE OF MUNICIPAL CENTER:
   A.   The tennis courts at the Village of Lake Barrington Municipal Center
shall be utilized for tennis only on a first come, first served basis, and all
other activity, including, but not limited to, skateboarding, in-line skating,
and hockey are prohibited on such tennis courts.
   B.   Use of the Municipal Center community room and all outdoor recreation
facilities on Village property shall be subject to such other regulations
established by the Lake Barrington Countryside Park District and approved from
time to time by the Village Board. (Ord. 96-O-11, 9-17-1996)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Findings
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Injury To Pavements
6-2-4: Littering
6-2-5: Obstructions And Encroachments Generally
6-2-6: Sale Or Display Of Merchandise On Streets; Defacing
6-2-7: Disturbing Barricades
6-2-8: Security Of Scaffolds, Ladders; Objects Likely To Fall Into Street
6-2-9: Insurance For Hazardous Activities
6-2-10: Harmful Deposits On Streets
6-2-11: Burning On Streets
6-2-12: Drainage Onto Streets
6-2-13: Street Drainage Facilities
6-2-14: Street Shoulders And Parkways
6-2-15: Mailboxes
6-2-16: Depositing Of Soil, Snow, Debris And/Or Any Other Substance
6-2-1: FINDINGS:
The board of trustees of the village hereby finds that facts as stated in the
preamble of ordinance 90-O-23 on file in the office of the village clerk are
true and correct. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, "street(s)" or "right(s) of way" shall mean the entire
width between the boundary lines or right of way lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for the
purposes of vehicular travel and shall include areas not yet publicly
maintained which already have been offered for dedication as a public street or
public right of way for which dedication has not yet been accepted. (Ord. 90-O-
23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-3: INJURY TO PAVEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or right of way pavement while the same is guarded
by a warning sign or barricade or to knowingly injure any street pavement.
(Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-4: LITTERING 1 :
It shall be unlawful to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any street,
right of way or other public place. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
6-2-5: OBSTRUCTION AND ENCROACHMENTS GENERALLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of, or encroachment upon any street, right of way or other public
place whether on, above or below ground level, except as may be specifically
authorized by the board of trustees or their designee. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-
1990)
6-2-6: SALE OR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE ON STREETS 1 ; DEFACING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, right of way or other
public place as space for the sale or display of goods or merchandise for sale
or to write or mark, or to place any signs or advertisements on any such
street, right of way or other public place and any such merchandise, goods or
signs may be removed summarily with or without notice by any village official.
(Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 6-1-2G of this title.
6-2-7: DISTURBING BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful to disturb or to interfere with any barricades or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening or
other hazard in any street or right of way. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-8: SECURITY OF SCAFFOLDS, LADDERS; OBJECTS LIKELY TO FALL INTO STREET:
Any scaffold or ladder placed in such position that they overhang or can fall
onto any street, right of way or other public place in the village shall be
firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded and it shall be unlawful to
place or leave any tool or article on any place in such a manner that the same
can fall into any such street, right of way or other public place. (Ord. 90-O-
23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-9: INSURANCE FOR HAZARDOUS ACTIVITIES:
No person shall engage in any work which involves the maintenance of ladders,
scaffolds or any other equipment on or overhanging any street, right of way or
other public place, or the use of any tools whatsoever on or over any such
place, if a permit from the village is required for such work, without filing a
certificate of insurance as required by this title. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-10: HARMFUL DEPOSITS ON STREETS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street, right of way or other public
place any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste
material, glass or other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal
or property. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 1 and section 4-1-3-1 of this code.
6-2-11: BURNING ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
any fire on or within any street, right of way or other public place. (Ord. 90-
O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-12: DRAINAGE ONTO STREETS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of or the
maintenance of any drain which discharges any polluted water or any harmful or
unhealthy substance or effluent of any kind onto or into any street, right of
way or other public place or directly onto any public ditch or storm sewer
unless approved in advance by the village president or his or her designee.
(Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 5-2-4 of this code.
6-2-13: STREET DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   Cross Slopes: All ditches within any street or right of way shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of title 9 of this
code. Ditch surface treatment shall be seeded or sodded in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" published by the
Illinois department of transportation, and as amended from time to time
(hereinafter "STSRB"). Any treatment other than turf must be approved by the
village president, or his or her designee, in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this title.
   B.   Hydraulic Capacities Of Ditches, Culverts And Storm Sewers: All ditches
and appurtenances within any street or right of way shall be designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with the applicable provisions of
title 9 of this code.
   C.   Alteration Of Ditches And Appurtenances: It shall be unlawful for any
person to fill, excavate or otherwise alter drainage ditches and appurtenances
without first having obtained a permit in accordance with this title. No posts,
rocks or obstructions of any kind may exist in ditch areas within any street or
right of way unless approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-
1990)
   D.   Construction And Material Specifications Of Driveway Culverts:
      1.   Pipe Culvert Materials And Installation: All driveway culverts
hereafter installed or replaced shall meet the requirements for storm sewers
and pipe culverts as specified in section
9-5-3 of this code and shall be placed in accordance with an approved site
development permit for the property in question. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
      2.   Maximum, Minimum Measurements: Culverts shall extend a minimum of
one foot (1') beyond and on either side of the paved portion of the driveway.
The cross slope over the culvert shall be no greater than three to one (3:1)
unless an approved headwall is used. The maximum culvert length shall be forty
feet (40'). The minimum internal diameter for driveway culverts shall be twelve
inches (12").
      3.   Internal Diameter Size: The internal diameter size, the invert and
pipe slope of any driveway culvert within any street or right of way shall be
approved in advance by the village president, or his or her designee.
      4.   Curbing In Right Of Way: Curbing shall not be permitted in any
street or right of way unless approved by the board of trustees and by the
village president, or his or her designee. (Ord. 2002-O-05, 4-2-2002)
   E.   Private Facilities: Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be
unlawful to construct or to maintain any private underground or aboveground
facilities for storm water, potable water supply, wastewater, irrigation, any
private electrical or any other private facilities or improvements within any
part of any street or right of way of the village, expect as may be
specifically authorized by the board of trustees or their designee; provided,
however, sump pump drainage may be constructed and maintained within a street
or right of way if approved in advance by the village president, or his or her
designee. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-2-14: STREET SHOULDERS AND PARKWAYS:
   A.   Design: Shoulders of streets and rights of way shall be constructed and
maintained so as to conform to the applicable provisions of title 9 of this
code.
   B.   Obstructions In Shoulders: There shall be no objects placed within the
shoulder areas of a street or right of way other than mailboxes located,
constructed, and maintained in compliance with section
6-2-15 of this chapter.
   C.   Parkway Treatment: Parkway surfaces within streets and rights of way
shall be sodded after completion of the residence and prior to the issuance of
a final occupancy permit. No light standards, posts, rocks or obstructions may
exist in the parkway areas. Exceptions to this provision are mailboxes located,
constructed, and maintained in compliance with section
6-2-15 of this chapter, traffic control signs, street signs, approved parkway
trees in accordance with the applicable provisions of title 9 of this code and
facilities owned and maintained by the village or by other public utilities
having a franchise granted by the board of trustees.
   D.   Sight Distances: Stopping sight distances within streets and rights of
way shall be maintained to comply with the minimum standards set forth in the
applicable provisions of title 9 of this code. Owners of premises abutting such
streets or rights of way shall remove overhanging branches which interfere with
traffic and safe transit pursuant to chapter 5 of this title.
   E.   Village Retains Right To Remove Obstructions: Except as otherwise
provided in section
6-2-15 of this chapter, the village shall have and hereby reserves the right to
immediately remove any obstruction located within a village right of way which
the village president, or his or her designee, determines to be in violation of
this section and which the village president, or his or her designee, also
determines to be a substantial and/or immediate risk to any vehicular traffic
and/or to village snow removal operations. (Ord. 2004-O-27, 10-19-2004)
6-2-15: MAILBOXES:
Permits shall not be required for the installation in public rights of way of
mailboxes and supporting structures meeting the requirements of the United
States postal service, subject to the following additional conditions, and in
event of any conflict, the most restrictive conditions shall apply:
   A.   The mailbox installation shall not conflict with existing or proposed
public or private utilities.
   B.   The face of the mailbox shall not be closer than twelve inches (12")
from the back of the curb or edge of the pavement if there is no curb.
   C.   The mailbox and supporting post shall be placed so as to comply with
United States postal service regulations as they exist from time to time but
the post shall be no closer than eighteen inches (18") from the back of the
curb or edge of the pavement if there is no curb.
   D.   Any mailbox within any public right of way shall be installed upon a
single wood or hollow metal support or post not to exceed six inches (6") in
diameter or in maximum width, or upon a single plastic post not to exceed
eighteen inches (18") in diameter or maximum width. The installation and/or use
above the surface of the ground of any of the following to support a mailbox
within any public right of way are hereby prohibited: 1) any metal beam, 2) any
metal post which is not hollow, 3) any hollow metal post greater than six
inches (6") in diameter or in maximum width, 4) any concrete posts or concrete
filled posts, 5) any brick or stone structures, or 6) any combination of the
foregoing prohibited means of support.
   E.   The owner shall be responsible for all costs of installing and
maintaining their mailbox and shall be obligated to reimburse the village for
any costs incurred by the village in removing any mailbox which does not comply
with this section.
   F.   Any mailbox support which does not conform to the provisions of this
section shall be removed or brought into compliance by the owner thereof on or
before November 22, 2004, but the village shall have and hereby reserves the
right to remove any mailbox and/or mailbox support(s) located within a village
right of way which the village president, or his or her designee, determines to
be in violation of this section and which the village president, or his or her
designee, determines to be a substantial and/or immediate risk to any vehicular
traffic and/or to village snow removal operations, provided, however, no
removal action shall be taken by the village except upon ten (10) days' written
notice sent to the owner of such mailbox by certified mail, return receipt
requested. (Ord. 2004-O-27, 10-19-2004)
6-2-16: DEPOSITING OF SOIL, SNOW, DEBRIS AND/OR ANY OTHER SUBSTANCE:
Any soil, aggregate, mud, dirt, dust, snow (whether blown, plowed, or
shoveled), debris and/or any other substance deposited on any street, road, or
highway by any person, vehicle, or equipment shall be immediately and
substantially removed by such person and/or the operator of the vehicle or
equipment depositing such soil, aggregate, mud, dirt, dust, snow (whether
blown, plowed, or shoveled), debris and/or any other substance and/or by the
building permittee, and/or owner of the site or property within the village
where such soil, aggregate, mud, dirt, dust, snow (whether blown, plowed, or
shoveled), debris and/or any other substance originates, and such parties shall
be jointly and severally liable and culpable for such violation if such
immediate and substantial removal of any soil, aggregate, mud, dirt, dust, snow
(whether blown, plowed, or shoveled), debris and/or any other substance so
deposited does not occur. (Ord. 2004-O-03, 2-3-2004; amd. Ord. 2004-O-27, 10-
19-2004)
CHAPTER 3
STREET CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required
6-3-2: Application For Permit
6-3-3: Approval Of Permit
6-3-4: Insurance Required
6-3-5: Security
6-3-6: Compliance With Specifications
6-3-7: Supervision Of Work
6-3-8: Barricades
6-3-9: Refilling, Restoration Of Surface
6-3-10: Obstructing, Altering Drainage Ditch Or Other Drainage Structures
6-3-11: Owner To Maintain Parkways And Ditch; Cutting Of Weeds And Grasses In
Adjacent Rights-Of-Way
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on, make any excavation
in or tunnel under any street, right of way or other public place or to repair
the same without having first secured a permit therefor. The fee for such
permit shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
6-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for permits required by this chapter shall be made to the village
clerk and shall state the location of the intended work, the extent thereof and
the person or firm who is to do the actual construction work. (Ord. 90-O-23,
10-16-1990)
6-3-3: APPROVAL OF PERMIT:
No permit required by this chapter shall be issued except on order of the
village president, or his or her designee. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-3-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a permit required by this chapter shall file an insurance
policy or certificate of insurance with public liability and property damage
coverage in an amount not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
naming the village, its officers, agents, servants and employees as additional
insureds. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990; amd. 1996 Code)
6-3-5: SECURITY:
   A.   Filed With Village Clerk: No permit required by this Chapter shall be
issued unless the applicant has also filed with the Village Clerk a surety bond
or unconditional letter of credit in an amount as specified from time to time
in Section
1-10-7 of this Code, or such larger bond as the Village President, or his or
her designee, determines necessary to ensure that the surface of such street,
right of way or public place shall be restored to its original condition and in
accordance with Section
6-3-9 of this Chapter upon completion of the work.
   B.   Proper Restoration: If within three (3) months of the commencement of
the work, the surface is so properly restored, the amount of the security shall
be returned to the applicant or applicant's assignee.
   C.   Improper Or Lack Of Restoration: If it is not restored within this
time, the surety bond or unconditional letter of credit shall be subject to a
claim by the Village for the costs of restoration unless the applicant, within
said three (3) months, returns the permit to the Village Clerk for cancellation
and the Village President, or his or her designee, after inspection, determines
that no work has been done at such street, right of way or public place. If
work has been done on the street, right of way or public place but it has not
been restored, the Village may, but shall not be obligated to, restore the
surface and make a claim against the security on deposit with the Village to
pay the cost thereof and the applicant shall be liable for any such cost in
excess of such security.
(Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-2024)
6-3-6: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS:
All pavement construction and repairs, excavations, refills, tunneling and
related resurfacing within streets, rights of way and other public places shall
conform to the standards specified in title 9 of this code and other applicable
provisions of this title, including, but not limited to, those specifications
for street construction, related to pavement and shoulder materials and
thickness, road width, grade and required drainage structures. (Ord. 90-O-23,
10-16-1990)
6-3-7: SUPERVISION OF WORK:
All repair work on pavements, new construction, all excavations, refills,
tunneling and related resurfacing within streets, rights of way and other
public places shall be under the supervision of the village president, or his
or her designee. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-3-8: BARRICADES:
Any person laying or repairing any pavement on or within any street, right of
way or other public place or making any excavation therein shall maintain
proper traffic control devices (i.e., barricades, etc.) and, at night, proper
warning lights, to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of the
work. Such traffic control devices shall comply with the "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices", U.S. department of transportation and Illinois
department of transportation supplement, and the applicable sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois department
of transportation (IDOT), as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-
2007)
6-3-9: REFILLING, RESTORATION OF SURFACE:
Any person making any excavation within any street, right of way or other
public place shall refill the same and shall restore the surface to its
condition before the excavation was made, as soon as possible, in accordance
with the applicable sections for pavement patching in the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois department of
transportation (IDOT), as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-
2007)
6-3-10: OBSTRUCTING, ALTERING DRAINAGE DITCH OR OTHER DRAINAGE STRUCTURES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to alter or obstruct established or
prescribed culverts, drainage ditches, storm drains or other drainage
structures within any street, right of way or public place, or within any
village easement without first having obtained a permit in accordance with this
chapter. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-3-11: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PARKWAYS AND DITCH; CUTTING OF WEEDS AND GRASSES IN
ADJACENT RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Unless otherwise directed by the village, the owners and occupants of
the abutting private or public property shall be jointly and severally
obligated to maintain unpaved portions of adjacent village streets, rights of
way and easements, including, but not limited to, parkways, culverts, storm
drains, ditches and any and all other drainage facilities, unobstructed and
free from foreign or natural materials or objects and said areas shall be
maintained in accordance with all applicable standards and provisions of this
title and/or title 9 of this code.
   B.   No person owning, having charge of or being in possession of land
within the Village shall fail to keep the adjacent right-of-way between such
property and the curb, or between such property and the edge of street where
there is no curb, free from all weeds.
   C.   No person owning, having charge of or being in possession of land
within this Village shall fail to keep the adjacent right-of-way between such
property and the curb, or between such property and the edge of the street
where there is no curb, free from grass and/or weeds which have grown to a
height in excess of six (6) inches. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990; amd. Ord. 2024-
O-13, 9-3-2024)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Driveway And Culvert Required
6-4-2: Compliance Required
6-4-3: Permit Required; Application; Fees
6-4-4: Issuance Of Permit
6-4-5: Hard Surface Driveway, Definition And Specifications
6-4-6: Maintenance
6-4-7: Interference With Drainage Prohibited
6-4-8: Drainage Facilities Within Streets
6-4-9: Driving Within Ditch Or Swale Restricted
6-4-1: DRIVEWAY AND CULVERT REQUIRED:
No building shall be erected or permitted on any lot or parcel unless in
conjunction there is constructed a culvert in compliance with the requirements
of this title and a "hard surfaced driveway" as hereinafter defined measuring
at least ten feet (10') in width and running from the street, or right of way
pavement to the building line with an additional width of hard surface of not
less than three feet (3') and not more than five feet (5') on each side thereof
at the edge of pavement for a straight line taper or turning radius unless a
different size radius or taper is approved in writing by the village president,
or his or her designee. Not more than two (2) driveways or other means of
ingress and egress shall be installed or maintained from one lot or parcel to
all village streets or rights of way. No driveway or other means of ingress and
egress shall be installed or maintained which permits or allows, or which may
reasonably be anticipated to facilitate the use of one or more such driveways
(or other means of ingress and egress) as a through driveway, i.e., a direct
route for vehicular traffic between two (2) different streets or rights of way.
(Ord. 2002-O-02, 3-5-2002)
6-4-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Any person who installs or repairs, or causes to be installed or repaired, any
driveway or other means of ingress and egress or any portion thereof or any
culvert within that portion of any street or right of way under the
jurisdiction of the village which lies between the traveled portion thereof and
right of way line shall comply with all the provisions of this title. (Ord. 90-
O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: Prior to any installation of a new driveway or other
new means of ingress and egress, or repair of a driveway or other means of
ingress and egress (except repairs which are exempted by subsection D of this
section), within any right of way or street under the jurisdiction of the
village, a driveway permit shall be secured from the village president, or his
or her designee.
   B.   Application: An application for a driveway permit shall be submitted in
writing to the village president, or his or her designee, on such form as shall
be reasonably required by the village president and shall include or be
accompanied by the following information:
      1.   Sketch, plat, drawing or other data showing the location and
dimensions of said driveway;
      2.   The relation between the elevation of the traveled portion of the
street or right of way, the portion thereof lying between such traveled portion
and the right of way thereof and the driveway to be installed;
      3.   The location of the driveway and reference to the nearest existing
intersecting street or right of way; and
      4.   Provision for drainage under and over said driveway.
   C.   Permit Fees: The application fee to be paid to the village at the time
of the filing of an application for a driveway permit as herein provided shall
be as provided from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
For purposes of this section, the term "access" or "point of access" is defined
as and shall be interpreted as a means of vehicular entry to or exit from a
property.
The driveway permit application fee shall be paid in addition to any other
permit fees which may be required by section
7-2-6 of this code. All application fees paid shall be nonrefundable.
   D.   Exception To Permit: No driveway permit shall be required for repairs
or maintenance of any existing driveway, if in the opinion of the village
president, or his or her designee, said repairs and maintenance shall not
result in relocation of said driveway, materially change the grade or elevation
of said driveway or materially affect drainage. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
6-4-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The village president, or his or her designee, shall issue a driveway permit if
he or she finds that the provisions of this chapter have been complied with and
that no unusual safety hazards will result from said driveway location which
could be avoided or reduced by relocating the driveway to serve the same
property. The village president, or his or her designee, may order that
construction of any road, street or highway under the jurisdiction of the
village cease and desist if the village president finds that the provisions of
this chapter are not being complied with. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-4-5: HARD SURFACE DRIVEWAY, DEFINITION AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Pavement Designs: For the purposes of this chapter, a hard surface
driveway shall be any permanent driveway serving a lot constructed in
accordance with one of the following pavement designs:
 
    Surface      Base Course              Subgrade
                                              Acceptable embankment
1. 2 inch bituminous                          material as (CA-6) determined
concrete (asphalt)   6 inch crushed aggregate by the village engineer
                                              compacted to 95 percent of
                                              proctor
2. Other equivalent designs as approved by the village administrator.
 
   B.   Additional Requirements: All driveways shall meet the following
additional requirements:
      1.   All driveway culverts hereafter installed or replaced shall be a
minimum equivalent diameter of twelve inches (12") and shall be of reinforced
concrete pipe consistent with the class and type of pipe for storm sewers as
specified in Section
9-5-3 of this Code provided, however, polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") or
polyethylene ("PE") pipe may be used only if and when approved by the Village
Engineer. The PVC or PE pipe shall have a smooth interior, water tight joints,
and a minimum stiffness rating of SDR 26. Only reinforced concrete flared end
sections with toe blocks and not corrugated metal or PVC flared end sections
shall hereafter be used with all culvert installations, except where the
Village Engineer determines that existing site conditions necessitate the use
of a different material for the flared end sections as directed by the Village
Engineer. Such culverts shall be placed in accordance with an approved site
development permit for the property in question.
      2.   Installation of the driveway culvert and base course of the driveway
shall be completed from the street or right of way pavement to the building
line prior to the commencement of any on site construction on any lot or
parcel, including preparatory site grading and shall be the only access to such
lot or parcel utilized for construction vehicles or equipment.
      3.   The final driveway surface course shall be completed prior to the
issuance of any final occupancy permit for the subject property. (Ord. 2002-O-
05, 4-2-2002; amd. Ord. 2023-O-22, 9-5-2023)
6-4-6: MAINTENANCE:
No driveway shall be installed or maintained within any street or right of way
which shall significantly interfere with or impede existing drainage. The owner
of the property served by a driveway shall be responsible for the maintenance
of such driveway and the structures appurtenant thereto. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-
1990)
6-4-7: INTERFERENCE WITH DRAINAGE PROHIBITED:
No person shall otherwise interfere with or impede drainage of any drainage
ditch, swale or other means of drainage within any street or right of way under
the jurisdiction of the village, or within any village easement, whether such
interference or impediment occurs within such street or right of way or upon
private property. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-4-8: DRAINAGE FACILITIES WITHIN STREETS:
No person shall construct, operate or maintain any conduit, drain, structure or
appurtenance within any street, right of way or other public place unless a
permit or approval has first been obtained therefor. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-4-9: DRIVING WITHIN DITCH OR SWALE RESTRICTED:
Except when constructing or improving a ditch or swale or other authorized
improvements within a right of way pursuant to a permit and approval issued
pursuant to this title or for maintenance purposes as required by this title,
it shall be unlawful to drive or operate any vehicle or construction equipment
within any such ditch or swale within any right of way or on the unpaved
portion of any right of way except within and upon a driveway and over a
culvert which are in compliance with this title. (Ord. 92-O-18, 5-5-1992)
CHAPTER 5
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Franchise Or License Agreement Required
6-5-1: FRANCHISE OR LICENSE AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct, install, maintain or operate telecommunication
equipment including, but not limited to, poles, wires, fiber optic cables,
underground conduits, ducts, manholes and other structures or appurtenances in,
upon, along, across, above, over, under or in any manner connected with the
streets, rights-of-way or other public places within the corporate limits of
the Village unless a franchise agreement or a license agreement has first been
obtained from the Corporate Authorities of this Village, except as otherwise
provided by State or Federal law. (Ord. 2017-O-12, 5-2-2017)
CHAPTER 6
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Violation
6-6-2: Stop Work Order
6-6-3: Hearing
6-6-1: VIOLATION:
In the event any person, including any person holding or receiving a permit or
approval pursuant to this title, violates the terms of this title or any
permit, approval or directive issued by the village president, or his or her
designee hereunder, or does any work or activity in a street, right of way or
in any other public place in such a manner as to materially adversely affect
the health, welfare or safety of persons or property or so as to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to such public property, the
village president, or his or her designee, may issue a stop work order and
suspend or revoke any permit. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990)
6-6-2: STOP WORK ORDER:
Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work order and delivered to
the permittee, if any, or to permittee's agent or the person performing the
work. The stop work order shall be effective immediately and shall concisely
state the reason for its issuance. A stop work order shall remain in effect
unless and until rescinded by the board of trustees or removed by the village
president, or his or her designee. (Ord. 90-O-23, 10-16-1990; amd. 1996 Code)
6-6-3: HEARING:
Any person subject to such a stop work order may request a hearing before the
president and board of trustees at their next regularly scheduled meeting which
occurs not less than five (5) days after the village clerk's receipt of such a
request. At the conclusion of the hearing the board of trustees shall determine
whether the stop work order shall be continued or be rescinded. (Ord. 90-O-23,
10-16-1990)
CHAPTER 7
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
6-7A-1: Purpose
6-7A-2: Definitions
6-7A-3: Registration And Fees
6-7A-4: Telecommunications License And Fees
6-7A-5: Telecommunications Franchise And Fees
6-7A-6: Cable Television Franchise
6-7A-7: Application To Existing Franchise Ordinances And Agreements
6-7A-8: Penalties
6-7A-9: Other Remedies
6-7A-10: Severability
6-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Establish a local policy concerning telecommunications providers and
services;
   B.   Establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for the
exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of
telecommunications providers and services;
   C.   Promote competition in telecommunications;
   D.   Minimize unnecessary local regulation of telecommunications providers
and services;
   E.   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive telecommunications
services on the widest possible basis to the businesses, institutions and
residents of the Village;
   F.   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the Village
for telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis;
   G.   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public ways held in
public trust by the Village;
   H.   Assure that the Village's current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating private access to and use of the public ways are fully paid by the
persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
   I.   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the Village and the
residents of the Village for permitting private use of the public ways;
   J.   Assure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities or
services within the Village comply with the ordinances, rules and regulations
of the Village;
   K.   Assure that the Village can continue to fairly and responsibly protect
the public health, safety and welfare;
   L.   Enable the Village to discharge its public trust consistent with
rapidly evolving Federal and State regulatory policies, industry competition
and technological development. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise:
AFFILIATE: A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
ANNUAL GROSS REVENUE: (Reserved)
CABLE ACTS: The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, as amended by
the Telecommunication Act of 1996 and as hereafter amended.
CABLE OPERATOR: A telecommunications carrier providing or offering to provide
"cable service" within the village as that term is defined in the cable act,
provided, however, to the extent such company has received authorization to
offer or provide cable or video service from the Illinois commerce commission
pursuant to the Illinois cable and video competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401, in which event, such person, company or other entity shall
then be subject to the provisions of title 2, chapter 12 of this code and
chapter 9 of this title.
CABLE SERVICE: Shall have the same meaning provided by the cable acts.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The president and board of trustees of the village.
EXCESS CAPACITY: The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that
is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications facilities.
FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The federal administrative agency, or
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
FRANCHISEE: Any person as holder of a telecommunication franchise as set forth
in this chapter.
ICC OR ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION: The state administrative agency, or lawful
successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications carriers,
services and providers in the state of Illinois.
LICENSEE: Any person as holder of a telecommunication license as set forth in
this chapter.
OTHER WAYS: The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights of
way within the village, but under the jurisdiction and control of a
governmental entity other than the village.
OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Utility poles, utility facilities and telecommunications
facilities located above the surface of the ground, including the underground
supports and foundations for such facilities.
PERSON: Means and includes corporations, companies, associations, joint stock
companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and
individuals and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
PUBLIC STREET: Any highway, street, alley or other public right of way for
motor vehicle travel under the jurisdiction and control of the village which
has been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes not
inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all "public streets" and "utility easements", as
those terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the village, but only
to the extent of the village's right, title, interest or authority to grant a
license or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
telecommunications facilities.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
SURPLUS SPACE: That portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has the
necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders and
regulations of the Illinois commerce commission, to allow its use by a
telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Means and includes every person that directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages a plant, equipment or property
within the village, used or to be used for the purpose of offering
telecommunications service, provided, however, to the extent such company has
received authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the
Illinois commerce commission pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401, in which event, such
person, company or other entity shall then be subject to the provisions of
title 2, chapter 12 of this code and chapter 9 of this title.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
electronics and other appurtenances used or to be used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISEE: See definition of Franchisee.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSEE: See definition of Licensee.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Means and includes every person who provides
telecommunications service over telecommunications facilities without any
ownership or management control of the facilities.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or lease,
or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data,
image, graphic and/or video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: See definition of Telecommunications Facilities.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Utility and telecommunications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for overhead facilities.
USABLE SPACE: The total distance between the top of a utility pole and the
lowest possible attachment point that provides the minimum allowable vertical
clearance as specified in the orders and regulations of the Illinois commerce
commission.
UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement owned by the village and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with
telecommunications facilities.
UTILITY FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public ways of the village and used or to be used for the purpose of providing
utility or telecommunications services.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the village,
other than "public streets" and "utility easements" as those terms are defined
herein, and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the village, which
are not subject to right of way licensing and franchising as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-7A-3: REGISTRATION AND FEES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, all telecommunications carriers or
providers engaged in the business of transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications originating or terminating within the village shall register
with and obtain a license from the village pursuant to this chapter and pay all
the fees as provided herein. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-4: TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE AND FEES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any telecommunications carrier who desires
to construct, install, operate, maintain or otherwise locate telecommunications
facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the village for the sole
purpose of providing telecommunications service to persons and areas outside
the village shall first obtain a license granting the use of such public ways
from the village pursuant to article C of this chapter and pay all the fees as
provided therein. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-5: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE AND FEES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any telecommunications carrier who desires
to construct, install, operate, maintain or otherwise locate telecommunications
facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the village, and to also
provide telecommunications service to persons or areas in the village, shall
first obtain a franchise granting the use of such public ways from the village
pursuant to article D of this chapter and pay all the fees as provided therein.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-6: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any telecommunications carrier who desires
to construct, install, operate, maintain or locate telecommunications
facilities in any public way of the village for the purpose of providing cable
service to persons in the village shall first obtain a cable franchise from the
village as provided in article E of this chapter and pay all the fees as
provided therein. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-7: APPLICATION TO EXISTING FRANCHISE ORDINANCES AND AGREEMENTS:
This chapter shall have no effect on any existing franchise ordinance or
franchise agreement until:
   A.   The expiration of said franchise ordinance or agreement;
   B.   An amendment to an unexpired franchise ordinance or franchise
agreement, unless both parties agree to defer full compliance to a specific
date not later than the present expiration date. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-8: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be
deemed committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-9: OTHER REMEDIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the village may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this
chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7A-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or other portion of this
chapter, or its application to any person, is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction,
said decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE B. REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS
SECTION:
6-7B-1: Registration Required
6-7B-2: Registration Fee
6-7B-3: Purpose Of Registration
6-7B-4: Exceptions To Registration
6-7B-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
All telecommunications carriers and providers that offer or provide any
telecommunications service for a fee directly to the public, either within the
Village, or outside the corporate limits from telecommunications facilities
within the Village, shall register with the Village pursuant to this Article on
forms to be provided by the Village Clerk, which shall include the following:
   A.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates.
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
   C.   A description of registrant's existing or proposed telecommunications
facilities within the Village.
   D.   A description of the telecommunications service that the registrant
intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons,
firms, businesses or institutions within the Village.
   E.   Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is subject
to public way licensing or franchising under this Chapter.
   F.   Information sufficient to determine whether the transmission,
origination or receipt of the telecommunications services provided or to be
provided by the registrant constitutes an occupation or privilege subject to
any Municipal telecommunications tax, utility message tax or other occupation
tax imposed by the Village.
   G.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied for
and received any certificate of authority required by the Illinois Commerce
Commission to provide telecommunications services or facilities within the
Village.
   H.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied for
and received any construction permit, operating license or other approvals
required by the Federal Communications Commission to provide telecommunications
services or facilities within the Village.
   I.   Such other information as the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7B-2: REGISTRATION FEE:
Each application for registration as a telecommunications carrier or provider
shall be accompanied by a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 97-O-10,
5-6-1997)
6-7B-3: PURPOSE OF REGISTRATION:
The purpose of registration under this Article is to:
   A.   Provide the Village with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide
telecommunications services within the Village, or that own or operate
telecommunications facilities within the Village;
   B.   Assist the Village in enforcement of this Chapter;
   C.   Assist the Village in the collection and enforcement of any Municipal
taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the Village;
   D.   Assist the Village in monitoring compliance with local, State and
Federal laws. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7B-4: EXCEPTIONS TO REGISTRATION:
The following telecommunications carriers and providers are excepted from
registration under this Chapter:
   A.   Telecommunications carriers that are owned and operated by any
political subdivision of this State for its own use.
   B.   A company or person which provides telecommunications services solely
to itself, its affiliates or members between points in the same building, or
between closely located buildings under common ownership or control, provided
that such company or person does not use or occupy any public ways of the
Village or other ways within the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE
SECTION:
6-7C-1: Telecommunications License
6-7C-2: License Application
6-7C-3: Determination By The Village
6-7C-4: Agreement
6-7C-5: Nonexclusive Grant
6-7C-6: Rights Granted
6-7C-7: Term Of Grant
6-7C-8: License Route
6-7C-9: Location Of Facilities
6-7C-10: Construction Permits
6-7C-11: Compensation To Village
6-7C-12: Service To Village Users
6-7C-13: Amendment Of Grant
6-7C-14: Renewal Applications
6-7C-15: Renewal Determinations
6-7C-16: Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal
6-7C-1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE:
A telecommunications license shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy specific public ways of the Village for the sole
purpose of providing telecommunications services to persons or areas outside
the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Any person that desires a telecommunications license pursuant to this Article C
shall file an application with the Village on a form which shall be provided by
the Village Administrator which shall include the following information:
   A.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of the
applicant.
   B.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
   C.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
   D.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of the
facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
      2.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
      3.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
      4.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
   E.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence that
surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities on
existing utility poles along the proposed route.
   F.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing ducts
or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities;
      2.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   G.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new ducts
or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
      2.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits after
installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   H.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
   I.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the IDOT Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   J.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
   K.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's technical
qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the telecommunications
facilities and services described in the application.
   L.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
   M.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Article F of this
Chapter.
   N.   Such other and further information as may be required by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-3: DETERMINATION BY THE VILLAGE:
Within one hundred twenty (120) days after receiving a complete application
under Section
6-7C-2 of this Article, the corporate authorities shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part, applying
the following standards. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's proposed
facilities.
   D.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility and
telecommunications facilities if the license is granted.
   E.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted.
   F.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
   G.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
   H.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the license
is granted.
   I.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities.
   J.   Applicable Federal and State telecommunications laws, regulations and
policies.
   K.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the public
ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-4: AGREEMENT:
No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the applicant and the
Village have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms
and provisions under which the license to occupy and use public ways of the
Village will be granted. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-5: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
No license granted under this Article shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the Village
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-6: RIGHTS GRANTED:
No license granted under this Article shall convey any right, title or interest
in the public ways, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the
public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant. Further, no
license shall be construed as any warranty of title or shall authorize or
excuse a licensee from securing such further easements, leases, permits or
other approvals as may be required to lawfully occupy and use excess capacity
in an underground facility or surplus space in an overhead facility. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-7: TERM OF GRANT:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, a telecommunications license
granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of five (5) years. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-8: LICENSE ROUTE:
A telecommunications license granted under this Article shall be limited to a
grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-
1997)
6-7C-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
   B.   A licensee with permission to install overhead facilities shall install
its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles
only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the Village
Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption
of the public ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future telecommunications carriers. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-10: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
All licensees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in Article 7 of this Chapter
provided, however, that nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Village and
a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction
procedures in a license agreement, provided such alternative procedures provide
substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction practices.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-11: COMPENSATION TO VILLAGE:
Each license granted under this Article is subject to the Village's right,
which is expressly reserved, to annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation
to be paid for the property rights granted to the licensee; provided, nothing
in this Article shall prohibit the Village and a licensee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-12: SERVICE TO VILLAGE USERS:
A licensee may be permitted to offer or provide telecommunications services to
persons or areas within the Village upon submitting an application for approval
pursuant to Article D of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-13: AMENDMENT OF GRANT:
   A.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways of the Village which are not
included in a license previously granted hereunder.
   B.   If ordered by the Village to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted license, the
Village shall grant a license amendment without further application. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-14: RENEWAL APPLICATIONS:
A grantee that desires to renew its license under this Article shall, not more
than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than ninety (90) days before
expiration of the current license, file an application with the Village for
renewal of its license which shall include the following information:
   A.   The information required pursuant to Section
6-7C-2 of this Article.
   B.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement between the
Village and the grantee. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-15: RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS:
Within ninety (90) days after receiving a complete application under Section
6-7C-14 of this Article, the corporate authorities shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part,
applying the following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
   D.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the license agreement.
   E.   Applicable Federal, State and local telecommunications laws, rules and
policies.
   F.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use
the public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-16: OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL:
No license shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the
licensee's performance of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this
Chapter, have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken
by the grantee has been approved by the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE D. TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
6-7D-1: Telecommunications Franchise
6-7D-2: Franchise Application
6-7D-3: Determination By The Village
6-7D-4: Agreement
6-7D-5: Nonexclusive Grant
6-7D-6: Term Of Grant
6-7D-7: Rights Granted
6-7D-8: Franchise Territory
6-7D-9: Location Of Facilities
6-7D-10: Construction Permits
6-7D-11: Compensation To Village
6-7D-12: Nondiscrimination
6-7D-13: Service To The Village
6-7D-14: Amendment Of Grant
6-7D-15: Renewal Applications
6-7D-16: Renewal Determinations
6-7D-17: Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal
6-7D-1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE:
A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public ways of the Village and to provide
telecommunications services to any person or area in the Village. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-2: FRANCHISE APPLICATION:
Any person that desires a telecommunications franchise pursuant to this Article
shall file an application with the Village which shall include the following
information:
   A.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
   B.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
   C.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchisee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
   D.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of the
facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
      2.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
      3.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
      4.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
   E.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence that
surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities on
existing utility poles along the proposed route.
   F.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing ducts
or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities;
      2.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   G.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new ducts
or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
      2.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits after
installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   H.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
   I.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the IDOT Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   J.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
   K.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's technical
qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the telecommunications
facilities and services described in the application.
   L.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
   M.   Whether the applicant intends to provide cable service, video dialtone
service or other video programming service, and sufficient information to
determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising.
   N.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing telecommunications
facilities in the Village that applicant intends to use or lease.
   O.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
offer or make available to the Village and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
   P.   A description of applicant's access and line extension policies.
   Q.   The area or areas of the Village the applicant desires to serve and a
schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area.
   R.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Article F of this
Chapter.
   S.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-3: DETERMINATION BY THE VILLAGE:
Within one hundred fifty (150) days after receiving a complete application
under Section
6-7C-2 of this Chapter, the corporate authorities shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part, applying
the following standards. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's proposed
facilities.
   D.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility and
telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
   E.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
   F.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
   G.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
   H.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
   I.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities.
   J.   Applicable Federal and State telecommunications laws, regulations and
policies.
   K.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the public
ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-4: AGREEMENT:
No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant and the Village
have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and
provisions under which the franchise to occupy and use public ways of the
Village will be granted. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-5: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
No franchise granted under this Article shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the Village
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-6: TERM OF GRANT:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be valid for a term of ten (10) years. (Ord.
97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-7: RIGHTS GRANTED:
No franchise granted under this Article shall convey any right, title or
interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed a franchise only to use and
occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant.
Further, no franchise shall be construed as any warranty of title or shall
authorize or excuse a franchisee from securing such further easements, leases,
permits or other approvals as may be required to lawfully occupy and use excess
capacity in an underground facility or surplus space in an overhead facility.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-8: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
A telecommunications franchise granted under this Article shall be limited to
the specific geographic area of the Village to be served by the franchise
grantee, and the specific public ways necessary to serve such areas. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
   B.   A franchisee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a franchisee with permission to occupy the same public way must
also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the Village
Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption
of the public ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-10: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
All franchisees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in Article 7 of this Chapter
provided, however, that nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Village and
a franchisee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction
procedures in a franchise agreement, provided such alternative procedures
provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction
practices. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-11: COMPENSATION TO VILLAGE:
Each franchise granted under this Article is subject to the Village's right,
which is expressly reserved, to annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation
to be paid for the property rights granted to the franchisee; provided, nothing
in this Article shall prohibit the Village and a franchisee from agreeing to
the compensation to be paid. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-12: NONDISCRIMINATION:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to any
customer within its franchise area who shall request such service, without
discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges for grantee's
services; provided, however, that nothing in this Article shall prohibit a
franchisee from making any reasonable classifications among differently
situated customers. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-13: SERVICE TO THE VILLAGE:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to the
Village at its most favorable rate for similarly situated users, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-
1997)
6-7D-14: AMENDMENT OF GRANT:
   A.   A new franchise application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend its franchise territory or to
locate its telecommunications facilities in public ways of the Village which
are not included in a franchise previously granted under this Chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the Village to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted franchise, the
Village shall grant a franchise amendment without further application. (Ord.
97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-15: RENEWAL APPLICATIONS:
A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this Article shall, not
more than two hundred forty (240) days nor less than one hundred fifty (150)
days before expiration of the current franchise, file an application with the
Village for renewal of its franchise which shall include the following
information:
   A.   The information required pursuant to Section
6-7D-2 of this Article.
   B.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the Village and the grantee. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-16: RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS:
Within one hundred fifty (150) days after receiving a complete application
under Section
6-7D-15 of this Article, the corporate authorities shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part,
applying the following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
   D.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the franchise agreement.
   E.   Applicable Federal, State and local telecommunications laws, rules and
policies.
   F.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use
the public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7D-17: OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL:
No franchise shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the
grantee's performance of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of
this Chapter, have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be
taken by the grantee has been approved by the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE E. CABLE COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
6-7E-1: Short Title
6-7E-2: Definitions
6-7E-3: Rights And Privileges Of Grantee
6-7E-4: Agreement And Incorporation Of Application By Reference
6-7E-5: Franchise Territory
6-7E-6: Duration And Acceptance Of Nonexclusive Franchise
6-7E-7: Franchise Renewal
6-7E-8: Franchise Renewal In The Event Of Change In Federal Law
6-7E-9: Police Powers
6-7E-10: Franchise Required
6-7E-11: Use Of Grantee Facilities
6-7E-12: Initial Franchise Costs
6-7E-13: Notices
6-7E-14: Letter Of Credit
6-7E-15: Construction Security
6-7E-16: Liability And Insurance
6-7E-17: Indemnification
6-7E-18: Rights Of Individuals
6-7E-19: Service Availability And Record Request
6-7E-20: System Construction
6-7E-21: Construction And Technical Standards
6-7E-22: Use Of Streets
6-7E-23: Operational Standards
6-7E-24: Customer Service Standards
6-7E-25: Continuity Of Service Mandatory
6-7E-26: Complaint Procedure
6-7E-27: Grantee Rules And Regulations
6-7E-28: Franchise Fee
6-7E-29: Transfer Of Ownership Or Control
6-7E-30: Availability Of Books And Records
6-7E-31: Other Petitions And Applications
6-7E-32: Fiscal Reports
6-7E-33: Removal Of Cable Television System
6-7E-34: Required Services And Facilities
6-7E-35: Rules And Regulations
6-7E-36: Performance Evaluation Sessions
6-7E-37: Rate Change Procedures
6-7E-38: Involuntary Termination
6-7E-39: Foreclosure
6-7E-40: Receivership
6-7E-41: Compliance With State And Federal Laws
6-7E-42: Landlord; Tenant
6-7E-43: Applicants' Bids For Initial Franchise
6-7E-44: Financial, Contractual, Shareholder And System Disclosure For
Franchises
6-7E-45: Franchise Violation; Notice And Procedures
6-7E-46: Liquidated Damages
6-7E-47: Reserved (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-48: Reserved (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the LAKE BARRINGTON CABLE
TELEVISION FRANCHISE ORDINANCE (hereinafter "the Ordinance"). (Ord. 2000-O-20,
10-3-2000)
6-7E-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
ADDITIONAL SERVICE: Any subscriber service provided by the grantee for which a
special charge is made based on program or service content, time, or spectrum
space usage.
BASIC SERVICE: All subscriber services provided by the grantee in one or more
service tiers, which includes the delivery of local broadcast stations, and
public, educational and government access channels. The basic service does not
include optional program and satellite service tiers, a la carte services (to
the extent such services are not basic service under FCC rules), per channel,
per program, or auxiliary services for which a separate charge is made.
However, grantee may include other satellite signals on the basic service.
CABLE MILE: Any extension of feeder or trunk measured from the nearest point of
distribution with adequate signal strength to allow for expansion.
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM OR CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A system of antennas,
cables, wires, lines, towers, wave-guides, or other conductors, converters,
equipment or facilities, designed and constructed for the purpose of producing,
receiving, transmitting, amplifying and distributing, audio, video, data and
other forms of electronic, electrical or optical signals, which includes cable
television service and which is located in the village. The definition shall
not include any such facility that serves or will serve only subscribers
without using village rights of way.
CHANNEL: A signaling path provided by a cable communications system to transmit
signals of any type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the cable
communications system.
CONTROL AND/OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control or ownership of a
system in whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable presumption of the existence
of control or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership,
directly or indirectly, by any person or entity (except underwriters during the
period in which they are offering securities to the public) of holding twenty
percent (20%) or more of a cable system or the franchise under which the system
is operated. A change in the control or controlling interest of an entity which
has control or a controlling interest in a grantee shall constitute a change in
the control or controlling interest of the system under the same criteria.
Control or controlling interest as used herein may be held simultaneously by
more than one person or entity.
CONVERTER: An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency within
the television receiver of a subscriber, and by an appropriate channel selector
also permits a subscriber to view more than twelve (12) channels delivered by
the system at designated converter dial locations.
FCC: The federal communications commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
FRANCHISE FEE: The fee that a company is required to pay to the village
pursuant to this article. This fee includes any tax, fee or assessment of any
kind imposed by the franchising authority or other governmental entity on a
cable operator or cable subscriber, or both, solely because of their status as
such. The term franchise fee does not include:
   A.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any such
tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators, or their
services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   B.   In the case of any franchise in effect on the date of enactment of
cable communications policy act of 1984, 47 USC section 609 et seq.
(hereinafter, the "1984 Cable Act"), payments which are required by the
franchise to be made by the grantee during the term of such franchise for, or
in support of the use of, public, educational or governmental access
facilities;
   C.   In the case of any franchise granted after such date of enactment,
capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by the grantee
for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
   D.   Requirements or changes incidental to the awarding or enforcing of the
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
   E.   Any fee imposed under title 17, United States Code.
GRANTEE: A person or entity to whom or which a franchise under this article is
granted by the village, along with the lawful successors or assigns of such
person or entity.
GROSS REVENUES: All revenue collected by the grantee from the operation of the
cable system to provide cable service within the village including, but not
limited to: periodic fees charged subscribers for any basic, optional, premium,
per-channel or per- program service; franchise fees; installation and
reconnection fees; leased channel fees; converter rentals and/or sales; program
guide revenues; late or administrative fees; upgrade, downgrade or other
change-in-service fees; advertising revenues; revenues from home shopping
channels; provided, however, that gross revenues shall not include any taxes on
services furnished by the grantee herein imposed directly upon any subscriber
or user by the state, local or other governmental unit and collected by the
grantee on behalf of the governmental unit, any uncovered bad debt and any PEG
capital support recovered from subscribers. The term gross revenues also
includes revenues collected from high-speed cable modem/cable internet service
as long as and to the extent that such service is deemed a cable service under
applicable federal or state law.
INITIAL GRANTEE: The entity and its lawful successor who was granted a cable
television franchise by the village of Lake Barrington in 1989 and proceeded to
construct the first cable television system in the village; "Initial Grantee"
also includes the person who may obtain a renewal of the above referenced cable
television franchise.
INITIAL SERVICE AREA: All areas of the village zoned and classified as part of
the R-1, R-2, or R-5 residential zoning district pursuant to title 8 of this
code and the official zoning map which is part thereof.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the system from feeder cable to subscribers'
terminals.
MAY: Is permissive.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: As applied to the grantee, shall mean those hours during
which similar businesses in the village are open to serve customers. In all
cases, normal business hours must include some evening hours at least one night
per week, and some weekend hours.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions that are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions that are not within the control of the
grantee include, but are not limited to: natural disasters, civil disturbances,
power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual weather
conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of the
grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
RENEWED FRANCHISE: Any franchise renewed pursuant to the franchise renewal
procedures in section 626 of the 1984 cable act, as amended.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STREET: The surface of and all rights of way and the space above and below any
dedicated right of way, which shall include, but not be limited to, public
streets, roads, highways, freeways, lanes, paths, sidewalks, alleys, courts,
boulevards, parkways, drives or easements now or hereafter held by the village
for the purpose of public travel and shall include other easements or rights of
way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the village which shall, within
their proper use and meaning entitle the grantee to the use thereof for the
purposes of installing poles, wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, pedestals, and other
property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable television
system. Streets shall not include property of the village which is not a
dedicated public right of way.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person, firm, corporation, entity (including, but not limited
to, any public or private entity including units of federal, state and local
government and any and all of their units, subdivisions, or agencies), or
association lawfully receiving any service provided by a grantee pursuant to
this article.
USER: A party utilizing a cable television system channel for purposes of
production or transmission of material to subscribers, as contrasted with
receipt thereof in a subscriber capacity.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, state of Illinois, its
village board of trustees, officers, agents, employees, committees, and/or
commissions unless otherwise specifically designated, and all the area within
the territorial limits of the village, its future corporate boundaries, and
including any area over which the village exercises its jurisdiction. (Ord.
2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-3: RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF GRANTEE:
Any franchise granted by the village pursuant to Illinois municipal code 1
shall grant to the grantee, subject to the terms and conditions of the
franchise agreement between the village and the grantee, the right and
privilege to erect, construct, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across,
above, over and under the streets now in existence and as may be created or
established during its terms any poles, wires, cable, underground conduits,
manholes, and other television conductors and fixtures necessary for the
maintenance and operation of a cable system. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-11.
6-7E-4: AGREEMENT AND INCORPORATION OF APPLICATION BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Upon approval of any franchise agreement by ordinance as provided in
this article and execution thereof by the grantee, the grantee shall be bound
by all the terms and conditions contained in this article.
   B.   Any grantee also agrees to provide all services specifically set forth
in its application, if there is one, and to provide cable television service
within the confines of the village; and by its acceptance of the franchise, the
grantee specifically grants and agrees that its application is thereby
incorporated by reference and made a part of the franchise, except that the
grantee may from time to time change its services in response to market and
financial decisions. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-5: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
Any franchise granted by ordinance pursuant to this article shall be deemed to
be for the current territorial limits of the village and for any area
henceforth added thereto during the term of the franchise. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-
3-2000)
6-7E-6: DURATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
   A.   Any franchise and the rights, privileges and authority hereby
authorized shall take effect and be in force from and after the signing of a
franchise agreement by the village, as provided by law, and shall continue in
force and effect for a term of no longer than fifteen (15) years, provided that
the grantee shall file acceptance of the franchise and its promise to comply
with and abide by all its provisions, terms and conditions. Such franchise
shall be nonexclusive and revocable only under the terms herein or in the
franchise agreement with grantee.
   B.   In the event the village enters into an additional franchise agreement
to use and occupy the public right of way for the purpose of operating a cable
system, said additional franchise agreement should only be granted if the
terms, conditions, and requirements relating to payments, facilities, equipment
and services to be provided by the subsequent cable operator satisfy the
applicable requirements set forth in the Illinois municipal code 1 , as now or
hereafter amended. Notwithstanding the applicability or repeal of section 11-
42-11, to maintain a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory environment as
required by the telecommunications act of 1996, any additional grantee shall
provide terms, conditions, and requirements relating to the payments,
facilities, equipment and services and regulatory requirements for use of the
public right of way that are substantially equivalent to the payments,
facilities, equipment and services and regulatory requirements imposed on the
grantee previously granted a franchise pursuant to this article. (Ord. 2000-O-
20, 10-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-11.
6-7E-7: FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
Franchise renewal shall be prescribed by applicable law. The village and any
grantee by mutual consent may enter into informal renewal negotiations at any
time during the term of the franchise.
Pursuant to 47 USC 546, the following procedures shall apply:
   A.   The village may, on its own initiative, during the six (6) month period
which begins with the thirty six (36) months before the franchise expiration,
commence a proceeding which affords the public in the village appropriate
notice and participation for the purpose of: 1) identifying the future cable-
related community needs and interests, and 2) reviewing the performance of the
grantee under the franchise. If the grantee submits, during such six (6) month
period, a written renewal notice requesting the commencement of such
proceeding, the village shall commence such proceeding not later than six (6)
months after the date such notice is submitted.
   B.   Upon completion of the proceeding under subsection A of this section,
the grantee may, on its own initiative or at the request of the village, submit
a proposal for renewal. The village may establish a date by which such proposal
shall be submitted.
   C.   Upon submittal by the grantee of a proposal to the village for the
renewal of the franchise, the village shall provide prompt, public notice of
such proposal and renew the franchise or issue a preliminary assessment that
the franchise should not be renewed, and at the request of the grantee or on
its own initiative, commence an administrative proceeding, after providing
prompt, public notice of such proceeding.
   D.   The village shall consider in any administrative proceeding whether: 1)
the grantee has substantially complied with material terms of the existing
franchise and with applicable law; 2) the quality of the grantee's service,
including signal quality, response to consumer complaints and billing
practices, but without regard to the mix or quality of cable services or other
services provided over the system, has been reasonable in the light of
community needs; 3) the grantee has the financial, legal and technical ability
to provide the services, facilities and equipment as set forth in the grantee's
proposal; and 4) the grantee's proposal is reasonable to meet the future cable-
related community needs and interests, taking into account the costs of meeting
such needs and interests.
   E.   In any proceeding under subsection D of this section, the grantee shall
be afforded adequate notice and the grantee and the village, or its designee,
shall be afforded fair opportunity for full participation, including the right
to introduce evidence (including evidence related to issues raised in the
proceedings under subsection A of this section), to require the production of
evidence and to question witnesses. A transcript shall be made of any such
proceeding.
   F.   At the completion of a proceeding under subsection D of this section,
the village shall issue a written decision granting or denying the proposal for
renewal based upon the record of such proceeding and transmit a copy of such
decision to the grantee. Such decision shall state the reasons therefor.
   G.   Any denial of a proposal for renewal that has been submitted in
compliance with the procedures set forth above, shall be based on one or more
adverse findings made with respect to the factors described in subsections D1
through D4 of this section pursuant to the record of the proceeding under said
subsections. The village may not base a denial of renewal on a failure to
substantially comply with the material terms of the franchise or on events
considered under subsection D2 of this section unless the village has provided
the grantee with notice and the opportunity to cure or in any case in which it
is documented that the village has waived its right to object.
   H.   The grantee may appeal any final decision or failure of the village to
act in accordance with the procedural requirements of this section. The court
shall grant appropriate relief if the court finds that: 1) any action of the
village is not in compliance with the procedural requirements of this section;
or 2) in the event of a final decision of the village denying the renewal
proposal, the grantee has demonstrated that the adverse finding of the village
with respect to each of the factors described in subsections D1 through D4 of
this section on which the denial is based is not supported by a preponderance
of the evidence, based on the record of the administrative proceeding. (Ord.
2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-8: FRANCHISE RENEWAL IN THE EVENT OF CHANGE IN FEDERAL LAW:
In the event that any or all of the above referenced provisions of federal law
are repealed, the village and any grantee shall agree to continue to follow the
procedures set forth in section
6-7E-7 of this article to the extent permitted by law. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-
2000)
6-7E-9: POLICE POWERS:
In accepting a franchise, the grantee acknowledges that its rights thereunder
are subject to the police power of the village to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public; and it agrees to
comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the village
pursuant to such power. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-10: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
No cable television system shall be allowed to operate or to occupy or use the
streets (i.e., rights of way) for system installation and maintenance purposes
without a franchise. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-11: USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES:
The village shall have the right to install and maintain free of charge upon
the poles of the grantee any wire or pole fixtures that do not unreasonably
interfere with the cable television system operations of the grantee. The
village shall indemnify and hold harmless the grantee from any claim that might
arise due to or as a result of the village's use of the poles in the manner set
forth in this section. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-12: INITIAL FRANCHISE COSTS:
Costs to be borne by the grantee shall include any requirements or charges
incidental to the awarding or enforcing of the initial franchise, but shall not
be limited to: all costs of publications of notices prior to any public meeting
provided for pursuant to this article, and any costs not covered by application
fees, incurred by the village in its study, preparation of proposal documents,
evaluation of all applications, and examinations of the applicant's
qualifications, including reasonable fees for attorneys and cable television
consultants. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-13: NOTICES:
All notices from the grantee to the village pursuant to any franchise shall be
to the Village of Lake Barrington, Attn: Village Administrator, 23860 N. Old
Barrington Road, Barrington, IL 60010. The grantee shall maintain with the
village, throughout the term of the franchise, an address for service of
notices by mail. The grantee shall maintain a central office to address any
issues relating to operating under this cable television ordinance. (Ord. 2000-
O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-14: LETTER OF CREDIT:
   A.   Within fifteen (15) days after the award of the franchise, the grantee
shall deposit with the village an irrevocable letter of credit from a financial
institution in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), with
the form to be established by the village. The form and content of such letter
of credit shall be approved by the village attorney. These instruments shall be
used to ensure the faithful performance of the grantee of all provisions of
this article, and to ensure compliance with all orders, permits and directions
of any agency, commission, board, department, division, or office of the
village having jurisdiction over its acts or defaults under this article, and
to ensure the payment by the grantee of any claims, liens, and taxes due the
village which arise by reason of the construction, operation or maintenance of
the system.
   B.   The letter of credit shall be maintained at the amount established
above or as otherwise specified in a franchise agreement. The grantee shall
replenish the security fund within fourteen (14) days after written notice from
the village that monies have been withdrawn from the fund, or if there is
otherwise a deficiency in the amount of the fund.
   C.   If the grantee fails to pay to the village any compensation within the
time fixed in the franchise agreement; or fails after thirty (30) days' notice
to pay to the village any taxes due and unpaid; or fails to repay the village
within thirty (30) days, any damages, costs or expenses which the village is
compelled to pay by reason of any act or default of the grantee in connection
with the franchise, or fails, after three (3) days' notice of such failure by
the village to comply with any provision of the franchise which the village
reasonably determines can be remedied by demand on the letter of credit, the
village may immediately demand payment of the amount thereof, with interest and
any penalties, from the letter of credit. Upon such demand for payment, the
village shall notify the grantee of the amount and date thereof.
   D.   The rights reserved to the village with respect to the letter of credit
are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether reserved by the
franchise or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a
right with respect to such letter of credit shall affect any other right the
village may have.
   E.   The letter of credit shall contain the following endorsement: "It is
hereby understood and agreed that this letter of credit may not be canceled by
the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety until thirty
(30) days after receipt by the Village, by registered mail, of a written notice
of such intention to cancel or not to renew."
   F.   Receipt of the thirty (30) day notice shall be construed as a default
granting the village the right to demand payment from the bank for the letter
of credit.
   G.   The village at any time during the term of the franchise, may waive in
writing grantee's requirement to maintain a letter of credit or may lessen the
amount. The waiver of the requirement can be initiated by the village or
grantee.
   H.   The village may review the amount of the letter of credit annually and
require the grantee to increase the letter of credit commensurate with
increases in the Chicago metropolitan area consumer price index during the
annual period. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-15: CONSTRUCTION SECURITY:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the award of the franchise (excluding
renewed franchises), the grantee shall file with the Village a surety bond or
unconditional letter of credit in the amount of not less than fifty percent
(50%) of the costs to install the system contained in the application in favor
of the Village. This security shall be maintained throughout the construction
period and until such time as determined by the Village, unless specified in
the franchise agreement.
   B.   If the grantee fails to comply with any law, ordinance or resolution
governing the franchise, or fails to fulfill and perform each term and
condition of the franchise as it relates to the conditions relative to the
construction of the system, including the franchise agreement that is
incorporated herein by reference, there shall be recoverable jointly and
severally, from the security, any damages or loss suffered by the village as a
result, including the full amount of any compensation, indemnification, or cost
of removal or abandonment of any property of the grantee, plus a reasonable
allowance for attorney fees, including the Village's legal staff, and costs, up
to the full amount of the bond. The remedy provided by this Section shall be
available in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the other remedies
provided in this article.
   C.   When the grantee has completed construction of the service area, the
Village may waive the requirement of the grantee to maintain the bond. However,
the Village may require a additional security to be posted by the grantee for
any construction subsequent to the completion of the initial service areas
where the estimated cost of the project exceeds forty thousand dollars
($40,000.00), including, but not limited to, any construction which occurs
during any renewed franchise term.
   D.   The security shall contain the following endorsement: "It is hereby
understood and agreed that this security may not be canceled until thirty (30)
days after receipt by the Village, by registered mail, of a written notice of
such intent to cancel and not to renew."
   E.   Receipt of a thirty (30) day notice shall be construed as default
granting the Village the right to demand payment on the security except to the
extent a new security is provided.
   F.   At any time during the term of this Article, the Village may waive in
writing grantee's requirement to maintain a security. The waiver of the
requirement can be initiated by the Village or the grantee.
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000; amd. Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-2024)
6-7E-16: LIABILITY AND INSURANCE:
   A.   The grantee shall maintain and by its acceptance of the franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the term of the franchise,
liability insurance insuring the village and the grantee in the minimum amount
of:
      1.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage to any one
person;
      2.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for property damage from any
one accident;
      3.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury to any one
person; and
      4.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for personal injury from any
one accident.
   B.   The certificate of insurance obtained by the grantee in compliance with
this section may be reviewed by the village attorney, shall name the village as
an additional insured, and shall be filed and maintained with the village
during the term of the franchise.
   C.   Neither the provisions of this section nor any damages recovered by the
village thereunder, shall be construed to or limit the liability of the grantee
under any franchise issued hereunder or for damages.
   D.   All insurance policies maintained pursuant to the franchise shall
contain the following endorsement: "It is hereby understood and agreed that
this insurance policy may not be canceled by the surety nor the intention not
to renew be stated by the surety until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail, a written notice of such intention to cancel or
not to renew. This insurance shall be primary to any insurance obtained by the
Village on its own behalf, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein."
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-17: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Disclaimer Of Liability: All franchise agreements shall provide that
the village shall not at any time be liable for injury or damage occurring to
any person or property from any cause whatsoever arising out of the
construction, maintenance, repair, use, operation, condition or dismantling of
the grantee's cable television system or due to the act or omission of any
person or entity other than the village or those persons or entities for which
the village is legally liable as a matter of law.
   B.   Indemnification: In all franchise agreements the grantee shall, at its
sole cost and expense, indemnify and hold harmless the village, all associated,
affiliated, allied and subsidiary entities of the village now existing or
hereinafter created, and their respective officers, boards, commissions,
employees, agents, attorneys and contractors (hereinafter referred to as
"Indemnitees") from and against the following:
      1.   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the indemnitees by
reason of any act or omission of the grantee, its personnel, employees, agents,
contractors or subcontractors, resulting in personal injury, bodily injury,
sickness, disease or death to any person or damage to, loss of or destruction
of tangible or intangible property, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and
unauthorized use of any trademark, trade name, copyright, patent, service mark
or any other right of any person, firm or corporation, which may arise out of
or be in any way connected with the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance, use or condition of the cable television system caused by grantee,
its subcontractors or agents or the grantee's failure to comply with any
federal, state or local statute, ordinance or regulation.
      2.   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which are imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the indemnitees by
reason of any claim or lien arising out of work, labor, materials or supplies
provided or supplied to the grantee, its contractors or subcontractors, for the
installation, construction, operation or maintenance of the cable television
system.
      3.   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the indemnitees by
reason of any financing or securities offering by grantee or its affiliates for
violations of any laws, statutes or regulations of the state of Illinois or of
the United States, including those of the federal securities and exchange
commission, whether by the grantee or otherwise; excluding therefrom, however,
claims which are solely based upon and arise solely out of information supplied
by the village to the grantee for consideration and in writing, and included in
the offering materials with the express written approval of the village prior
to the offering.
   C.   Assumption Of Risk: All franchise agreements shall provide that the
grantee undertakes and assumes for its officers, agents, contractors and
subcontractors and employees all risk of dangerous conditions, if any, on or
about any village-owned or controlled property, including public rights of way,
and that the grantee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the indemnitees
against and from any claim asserted or liability imposed upon the indemnitees
for personal injury or property damage to any person arising out of the
installation, operation, maintenance or condition of the cable television
system or the grantee's failure to comply with any federal, state or local
statute, ordinance or regulation except that nothing in the franchise agreement
shall be construed to indemnify the above noted parties from negligent acts on
their part or the village's part.
   D.   Defense Of Indemnitees: All franchise agreements shall provide that in
the event any action or proceeding shall be brought against the indemnitees by
reason of any matter for which the indemnitees are indemnified hereunder, the
grantee shall, upon notice from any of the indemnitees, at the grantee's sole
cost and expense, resist and defend the same.
   E.   Notice, Cooperation And Expenses: All franchise agreements shall
provide that the village shall give the grantee prompt notice of the making of
any written claim or the commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding
covered by the provisions of this section and that nothing in the franchise
agreement shall be deemed to prevent the village from cooperating with the
grantee and participating in the defense of any litigation by the village's own
counsel.
   F.   Nonwaiver Of Statutory Limits: All franchise agreements shall provide
that nothing in the agreement is intended to express or imply a waiver by the
village of statutory provisions, privileges or immunities of any kind or nature
as set forth in Illinois statutes, including the limits of liability of the
village as exists presently or may be increased from time to time by the
legislature. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-18: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   The grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, income, sex, marital status,
sexual preference or age. The grantee shall comply at all times with all other
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations and all executive and
administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination which are hereby
incorporated and made part of this article by reference.
   B.   The grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity
requirements of the federal communications commission and of state and local
governments, and as amended from time to time.
   C.   The grantee shall, at all times, comply with the privacy requirements
of state and federal law.
   D.   Grantee is required to make all services available to all potential
subscribers throughout the service area or as otherwise specified in a
franchise agreement. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-19: SERVICE AVAILABILITY AND RECORD REQUEST:
The grantee shall provide cable television service throughout the entire
franchise area pursuant to the provisions of the franchise and shall keep a
record for at least three (3) years of all requests for service received by the
grantee. This record shall be available for public inspection at the regional
office of the grantee during regular office hours. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-20: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   New Construction Timetable:
      1.   Within two (2) years from the date of the award of the initial
franchise, the grantee must make cable television service available to every
dwelling unit within the initial service area.
         a.   The grantee must make cable television service available to at
least twenty percent (20%) of the dwelling units within the initial service
area within twelve (12) months from the date of the award of the franchise.
         b.   The grantee must make cable television service available to at
least fifty percent (50%) of the occupied dwelling units within the initial
service area within eighteen (18) months from the date of the award of the
franchise.
      2.   The grantee, in its application, may propose a timetable of
construction which will make cable television service available in the initial
service area sooner than the above minimum requirements, in which case the said
schedule will be made part of the franchise agreement, and will be binding upon
the grantee.
      3.   In special circumstances the village may waive one hundred percent
(100%) completion within the two (2) year time frame, provided substantial
completion is accomplished within the allotted time frame, substantial
completion to be not less than ninety five percent (95%). Justification for
less than one hundred percent (100%) must be submitted subject to the
satisfaction of the village.
      4.   The grantee shall install conduit, pedestals and vaults underground
as required by section
6-7E-21 of this article.
   B.   Line Extensions:
      1.   Extension Of System: In areas of the franchise territory not
included in the initial service areas, the grantee shall be required to extend
its system pursuant to the following requirements:
         a.   No customer shall be refused service arbitrarily. Grantee is
hereby authorized to extend the cable system as necessary within the village.
To expedite the process of extending the cable system into a new subdivision,
the village will forward to the grantee an approved engineering plan of each
project. Subject to the density requirements in subsection B1b of this section,
the grantee shall commence the design and construction process upon receipt of
the final engineering plan. Upon notification from the village that the first
home in the project has been approved for a building permit, the grantee shall
have a maximum of three (3) months to complete the construction/activation
process within the applicable project phase.
         b.   The grantee shall extend and make cable television service
available to every dwelling unit in all unserved, developing areas having at
least twenty (20) occupied dwelling units per cable mile, as measured from the
existing system, and shall extend its system simultaneously with the
installation of utility lines to the extent practical.
         c.   The grantee shall extend and make cable television service
available to any isolated resident outside the initial service area requesting
connection at the standard connection charge, if the connection to the isolated
resident would require no more than a standard one hundred twenty five foot
(125') drop line.
      2.   Early Extension: In areas not meeting the requirements for mandatory
extension of service, the grantee shall provide, upon the request of a
potential subscriber desiring service, an estimate of the grantee's costs
required to extend service to the subscriber. The grantee shall then extend
service upon request of the potential subscriber. The grantee may require
advance payment or assurance of payment satisfactory to the grantee within a
period of thirty six (36) months of payment. In the event the area subsequently
reaches the density required for mandatory extension, such payments which
exceed the standard installation costs for said installation shall be refunded
to the subscriber.
      3.   New Development Undergrounding: In cases of new construction or
property development where utilities are to be placed underground, the
developer or property owner shall give the grantee reasonable notice of such
construction or development, and of the particular date on which open trenching
will be available for the grantee's installation of conduit, pedestals and/or
vaults, and laterals to be provided at the grantee's expense. The grantee shall
also provide specifications as needed for trenching. Costs of trenching and
easements required to bring service to the development shall be borne by the
developer or property owner; except that if the grantee fails to install its
conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals within ten (10) working days of
the date the trenches are available, as designated in the notice given by the
developer or property owner to the grantee, then should the trenches be closed
after the ten (10) day period, the cost of new trenching is to be borne by the
grantee.
   C.   Special Agreements: Nothing in the franchise agreement shall be
construed to prevent the grantee from serving geographical areas not covered
under this section upon agreement with developers, property owners, residents,
or businesses.
   D.   Additional Service Extension: The grantee, in its application, may
propose a line extension policy that will result in serving more residents of
the village than as required above, in which case the grantee's policy will be
incorporated into the franchise agreement and will be binding on the grantee.
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-21: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Construction And Technical Standards: The grantee shall
construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a manner consistent with
all laws, ordinances, construction standards, and governmental requirements. In
addition, the grantee shall provide the village, upon request, a written report
of the results of the grantee's annual proof of performance tests conducted
pursuant to federal communications commission standards and requirements.
   B.   Additional Specifications:
      1.   Construction, installation and maintenance of the cable television
system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All cables and
wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with electric and telephone
lines. Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled
with due respect for engineering considerations.
      2.   The grantee shall at all times comply with:
         a.   National electrical safety code (national bureau of standards);
         b.   National electrical code (national bureau of fire underwriters);
         c.   Applicable FCC or other federal, state and local regulations.
      3.   In any event, the system shall not endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property in the franchise area or other areas where the
grantee may have equipment located.
      4.   Any antenna structure used in the system shall comply with
construction, marking, and lighting of antenna structure, required by the
United States department of transportation.
      5.   All working facilities and conditions used during construction,
installation and maintenance of the cable television system shall comply with
the standards of the occupational safety and health administration.
      6.   RF leakage shall be checked at reception locations for emergency
radio services to prove no interference signal combinations are possible. Stray
radiation shall be measured adjacent to any proposed aeronautical navigation
radio sites to prove no interference to airborne navigational reception in the
normal flight patterns. FCC rules and regulations shall govern.
      7.   The grantee shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby
power for headend, transportation and trunk amplifiers for a minimum of two (2)
hours.
      8.   In all areas of the village where all the cables, wires and other
like facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the grantee shall
place its cables, wires and other like facilities underground. When public
utilities relocate their facilities from pole to underground, the grantee must
concurrently do so. If said utilities are reimbursed for such relocation, the
grantee shall be entitled to like reimbursement.
      9.   In accordance with and at the time required by the provisions of FCC
regulations part 11, subpart D, section 11.51, and as such provisions may from
time to time be amended, the grantee shall install, if it has not already done
so, and maintain an emergency alert system (EAS) for use in transmitting
emergency act notifications (EAN) and emergency act terminations (EAT) in local
and statewide situations as may be designated to be an emergency by the local
primary (LP), the state primary (SP) and/or the state emergency operations
center (SEOC), as those authorities are identified and defined within FCC
regulations section 11.18. The village shall permit only appropriately trained
and authorized persons to operate the EAS equipment and shall take reasonable
precautions to prevent any use of the grantee's cable system in any manner that
results in inappropriate use thereof, or any loss or damage to the cable
system. Except to the extent expressly prohibited by law, the village shall
hold the grantee, its employees, officers and assigns harmless from any claims
arising out of the emergency use of its facilities by the village, including,
but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and costs. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-
2000)
6-7E-22: USE OF STREETS:
   A.   Interference With Persons And Improvements: The grantee's system,
poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so that
none of its facilities shall endanger or interfere with the lives of persons or
interfere with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of the streets and public ways, or interfere with any improvements
the village may deem proper to make, or hinder or obstruct the free use of the
streets, alleys, bridges, easements or public property.
   B.   Restoration To Prior Condition: In case of any disturbance of pavement,
sidewalk, landscaping, driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its
own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the village, replace and
restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway, landscaping, or surface of any street
or alley disturbed, in as good condition as before the work was commenced and
in accordance with standards for such work set by the village. Village approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   C.   Erection, Removal And Common Uses Of Poles:
      1.   No poles or other freestanding wire-holding structures for aerial
plant shall be erected by the grantee without prior approval of the village
with regard to location, height, types, and any other pertinent aspect.
However, no location of any pole or freestanding wire-holding structure of the
grantee shall be a vested interest and such poles or structures shall be
removed or modified by the grantee whenever the village determines that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
      2.   Where poles or other freestanding wire-holding structures for aerial
plant already existing for use in serving the village are available for use by
the grantee, but it does not make arrangements for such use, the village may
require the grantee to use such poles and structures if it determines that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available
to the grantee are just and reasonable.
   D.   Relocation Of Facilities: If at any time during the period of the
franchise the village shall elect to alter, or change the grade of any street,
alley or other public ways, or the village shall use the public way for any
public purpose which will conflict with the grantee's use, the grantee, upon
reasonable notice by the village, shall remove or relocate as necessary its
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its
own expense.
   E.   Cooperation With Building Movers: The grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a building moving permit issued by the village, temporarily
raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such
temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person
requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the authority to require such
payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not less than seventy two (72)
hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   F.   Tree Trimming: The grantee shall not remove any tree without the prior
consent of the village, and must trim trees in accordance with all village
regulations and procedures. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-23: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   The grantee shall maintain all parts of the system in good condition
throughout the entire franchise period.
   B.   Upon the reasonable request for service by any person located within
the franchise territory, the grantee shall, within thirty (30) days, furnish
the requested service to such person within terms of the line extension policy
in subsection 6-7E-20B of this article. A request for service shall be
unreasonable for the purpose of this subsection if no trunk or feeder line
installation capable of servicing that person's block has been installed.
   C.   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
   D.   The grantee shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere
with television reception of subscribers or persons not served by the grantee,
nor shall the system interfere with, obstruct or hinder in any manner the
operation of the various utilities serving the residents within the confines of
the village nor shall other utilities interfere with the grantee's system.
   E.   Grantee shall be responsible for any damages resulting from any toxic
waste or hazardous substances resulting from the grantee's installations or
from the grantee's use of the franchise, and grantee shall be responsible for
the removal of same, which obligation shall survive the termination of the
franchise. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-24: CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS:
   A.   Enforcement: Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the
enforcement of any federal, state or local law or regulation concerning
customer service or consumer protection that imposes customer service standards
or consumer protection requirements that exceed the customer service standards
set out in this article or that address matters not addressed in this article.
   B.   Access Line For Subscribers: The grantee shall maintain a Chicago area
(standard metropolitan statistical area) telephone access line which is
available to its subscribers and shall have knowledgeable, qualified
representatives available to respond to customer telephone inquiries twenty
four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
   C.   Answering Time: Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer
time, including wait time and the time required to transfer the call, shall not
exceed thirty (30) seconds. This standard shall be met no less than ninety
percent (90%) of the time as measured on a quarterly basis.
   D.   Busy Signals Limited: Under normal operating conditions, the customer
will receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the total time that
the office is open for business.
   E.   Walk-In Service: Customer service centers and bill payment locations
will be open for walk-in customer transactions a minimum of eight (8) hours per
day Monday through Friday, unless there is a need to modify those hours because
of the location or customers served. The grantee and village by mutual consent
shall establish supplemental hours on weekdays and weekends as fits the needs
of the community.
   F.   Annual Measurement Of Standards: Under normal operating conditions,
each of the following standards will be met no less than ninety five percent
(95%) of the time as measured on an annual basis:
      1.   Standard installations will be performed within seven (7) business
days after an order has been placed. A standard installation is one that is
within one hundred twenty five feet (125') of the existing system.
      2.   Excluding those situations that are beyond its control, the grantee
will respond to any service interruption promptly and in no event later than
twenty four (24) hours from the time of initial notification. All other regular
service requests will be responded to within thirty six (36) hours during the
normal workweek for that system except to the extent that other arrangements
acceptable to the customer can be made. The appointment window alternatives for
installations, service calls and other installation activities will be:
"morning" or "afternoon"; not to exceed a four (4) hour "window" during normal
business hours for the system, or at a time that is mutually acceptable. The
grantee may schedule supplemental hours during which appointments can be
scheduled based on the needs of the consumers. If at any time an installer or
technician is running late, an attempt to contact the customer will be made and
the appointment rescheduled as necessary at a time that is convenient to the
customer.
   G.   Subscriber Credit For Outages: Upon service interruption of a
subscriber's cable service, and upon subscriber request, the following shall
apply:
      1.   Grantee shall provide a credit for lost cable service of not less
than the value of the actual time without service, due to an outage or
interruption of cable service lasting at least four (4) or more hours.
   H.   Written Information On Installation Times: The grantee shall provide
written information for each of the following areas at the time of installation
and at any future time upon the request of the customer:
      1.   Product and services offered,
      2.   Prices and service options,
      3.   Installation and service policies, and
      4.   How to use the cable television services.
   I.   Bills Clear And Itemized: Bills will be clear, concise and
understandable, with all charges for cable services and packages itemized.
   J.   Late Fees Or Other Charges: A grantee may impose a late, administrative
or other fee on a customer for nonpayment of a bill after thirty (30) days have
elapsed in the billing cycle which is the subject of the unpaid bill.
   K.   Rate Or Channel Changes: The grantee shall notify customers a minimum
of thirty (30) days in advance of any rate or channel change.
   L.   Compliance: The grantee shall maintain and operate its network in
accordance with the rules and regulations incorporated in this article and in
the franchise agreement, or as may be promulgated by the federal communications
commission, the United States congress, or the state of Illinois.
   M.   Maintenance Of Technical Standards And Service: The grantee shall
continue, through the term of the franchise, to maintain the technical
standards and quality of service set forth in this article. Should the village
obtain evidence and determine by findings of fact that the grantee has failed
to maintain the technical standards and quality of service, and should it, by
resolution, specifically enumerate said failures, the grantee shall correct
said failures. Failure to make such improvements within three (3) months of
such resolution will constitute a breach of a condition for which the
liquidated damages contained in section
6-7E-46 of this article are applicable.
   N.   Monthly Service Log; Complaints: The grantee shall keep a monthly
service log which indicates the nature of each service complaint received in
the last six (6) months, the date and time each complaint was received, the
disposition of each complaint, and the time and date thereof. This log shall be
made available for periodic inspection by the village. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-
2000)
6-7E-25: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE MANDATORY:
   A.   It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue receiving service
insofar as their financial and other obligations to the grantee are honored. If
the grantee elects to overbuild, rebuild, modify or sell the system, the
grantee shall reasonably act so as to ensure that the system provides
continuous, uninterrupted service regardless of the circumstances.
   B.   If there is a change of franchise, or if a new operator acquires the
system, the grantee shall cooperate with the village, new franchisee or
operator in maintaining continuity of service to all subscribers. During such
period, the grantee shall be entitled to the revenues for any period during
which it operates the system, and shall be entitled to reasonable costs for its
services until it no longer operates the system.
   C.   If the grantee fails to operate the system for seven (7) consecutive
days without prior approval of the village or without just cause, the village
may, at its option, operate the system or designate an operator until such time
as the grantee restores service under conditions acceptable to the village or a
permanent operator is selected. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-26: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   The village administrator or his/her designee is designated as having
primary responsibility for the continuing administration of the franchise and
implementation of complaint procedures.
   B.   During the terms of the franchise and any renewal thereof, the grantee
shall maintain a central office reachable by a Chicago area (standard
metropolitan statistical area) telephone call to receive complaints regarding
quality of service, equipment functions and similar matters. The grantee will
make good faith efforts to arrange for one or more payment locations in a
central location where customers can pay bills within twenty (20) miles of the
village.
   C.   As subscribers are connected or reconnected to the system, the grantee
shall, by appropriate means, such as a card or brochure, furnish information
concerning the procedures for making inquiries or complaints, including the
name, address and local telephone number of the employee or employees or agent
to whom such inquiries or complaints are to be addressed.
   D.   When there have been similar complaints made, or where there exists
recurring evidence, which casts doubt on the reliability or quality of cable
service, the village shall have the right and authority to require the grantee
to test, analyze and report on the performance of the system. The grantee shall
fully cooperate with the village in performing such testing and shall prepare
results and a report, if requested, within thirty (30) days after notice. Such
report shall include the following information:
      1.   The nature of the complaint or problem that precipitated the special
tests;
      2.   The system component(s) tested;
      3.   The equipment used and procedures employed in testing;
      4.   The method, if any, in which such complaint or problem was resolved;
      5.   Any other information pertinent to the tests and analysis which may
be required.
   E.   The village may require that tests be observed by an independent
professional engineer or equivalent of the village's choice at the village's
expense. The engineer shall be given records of special tests and may forward
to the village such records with a report interpreting the results of the
tests.
   F.   The village's rights under this section shall be limited to requiring
tests, analysis and reports covering specific subjects and characteristics
based on recurring complaints or other evidence when and under such
circumstances as the village has reasonable grounds in its judgment to believe
that the complaints or other evidence require that tests be performed to
protect the public against violations of this article and an attendant
franchise agreement. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-27: GRANTEE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable the grantee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligations under the franchise, and to assure uninterrupted service to
each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions hereof or
applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-
3-2000)
6-7E-28: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A grantee shall pay to the village a franchise fee in the amount
designated in the franchise agreement. Unless otherwise specified in the
franchise agreement, such franchise fee shall be five percent (5%) of the
grantee's gross revenues. If the statutory five percent (5%) limitation on
franchise fees is raised or the federal statute deletes the franchise fee
limitation entirely, then the parties to any franchise agreement made pursuant
to this article may, but are not required to renegotiate the franchise fee.
   B.   The franchise fee payment shall be in addition to any other tax or
payment owed to the village by the grantee and shall not be construed as
payment in lieu of municipal property taxes or other state, county or local
taxes.
   C.   The franchise fee and any other penalties assessed shall be payable
quarterly on a calendar year basis to the village within sixty (60) days of the
end of each quarter. The grantee shall also file a complete and accurate
verified statement of all gross receipts as previously defined within sixty
(60) days after the end of the quarter.
   D.   The village shall have the right to inspect the grantee's income
records and the right to audit and to recompute any amounts determined to be
payable under this article; provided, however, that such audit shall take place
within sixty (60) months following the close of each of the grantee's fiscal
years. Any additional amount due the village as a result of an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days following written notice to the grantee by the
village, which notice shall include a copy of the audit report, except where
grantee may reasonably dispute such an amount. If such additional amount
exceeds three percent (3%) of the total franchise fee which the audit
determines should have been paid for any calendar year, the grantee shall pay
the village's audit costs.
   E.   If any franchise payment or recomputed amount, or penalty, is not made
on or before the applicable dates heretofore specified, interest shall be
charged daily from such date at an annual rate of twelve percent (12%). (Ord.
2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-29: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL:
   A.   A franchise shall not be assigned or transferred, either in whole or in
part, without the prior written consent of the village. The grantee may,
however, transfer or assign the franchise to a wholly owned subsidiary of the
grantee and such subsidiary may transfer or assign the franchise back to the
grantee without such consent, providing that such assignment is without any
release of liability of the grantee. Any proposed assignee must possess the
necessary legal, technical and financial qualifications to establish its
ability to operate the system in conformity with federal law and this article,
proof of which shall be provided by the grantee and/or assignee to the
reasonable satisfaction of the village. Any proposed assignee must agree to
comply with all provisions of the franchise. The village shall have one hundred
twenty (120) days to act upon any request for approval of a sale or transfer
submitted in writing that contains or is accompanied by all such information as
is required. The village shall be deemed to have consented to a proposed
transfer or assignment if its refusal to consent is not communicated in writing
to the grantee within one hundred twenty (120) days following receipt of
written notice together with all necessary information as to the effect of the
proposed transfer or assignment upon the public, unless the requesting party
and the village agree to an extension of time. The village shall not
unreasonably withhold consent to a proposed transfer.
   B.   The grantee shall promptly notify the village of any actual or proposed
pending change in, or transfer of, or acquisition by any other party of,
control of the grantee. The word "control" as used herein, is not limited to
major stockholders, but includes actual working control in whatever manner
exercised. A rebuttable presumption that a transfer of control has occurred
shall arise upon the acquisition or accumulation by any person or group of
persons of twenty percent (20%) of the voting shares of the grantee. Every
change, transfer or acquisition of control of the grantee shall make the
franchise subject to cancellation unless and until the village shall have
consented thereto, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. For the
purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such change, transfer or
acquisition of control, the village may investigate the legal, technical, and
financial qualifications of the prospective controlling party, and the grantee
and/or assignee shall reasonably cooperate with the village's investigation.
   C.   The consent or approval of the village to any transfer of the grantee,
franchise, or control thereof, shall not constitute a waiver or release of the
rights of the village in and to the streets, and any transfer shall by its
terms, be expressly subordinate to the terms and conditions of the franchise.
   D.   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the village shall not be
required to approve any transfer or assignment of a new franchise prior to
substantial completion of the initial construction of the proposed system.
   E.   In no event shall a transfer of ownership or control be approved
without the successor(s) in interest executing a written acceptance of the
franchise agreement. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-30: AVAILABILITY OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   The grantee shall fully cooperate in making available at reasonable
times, and the village shall have the right to inspect, where reasonably
necessary or desirable for the enforcement of the franchise, books, records,
maps, plans and other like materials of the grantee applicable to the cable
television system, at any time during normal business hours; provided however,
that where volume and convenience necessitate, the grantee may require
inspection to take place on the grantee premises.
   B.   The following records and/or reports are to be made available to the
village upon request, but not more frequently than on a quarterly basis, unless
mutually agreed upon by the grantee and the village:
      1.   A quarterly progress report submitted by the grantee to the village
which may include major construction progress reports, service call reports and
outage history;
      2.   Periodic preventive maintenance reports;
      3.   Any copies of FCC form 395-A (or successor form) or any supplemental
forms related to equal opportunity or fair contracting policies;
      4.   Subscriber inquiry/complaint resolution data and the right to review
documentation concerning these inquiries and/or complaints on an aggregate
basis periodically with respect for federal subscriber privacy legislation;
      5.   During the rebuild of a substantial portion or all of the system in
the village, periodic construction update reports including, the submission of
information which provides the location and description of the facilities as
installed. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-31: OTHER PETITIONS AND APPLICATIONS:
Upon request, a grantee shall submit copies of any public document issued or
filed by any federal or state regulatory agencies which are nonroutine in
nature that will materially and directly affect the grantee's cable television
operations within the franchise area. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-32: FISCAL REPORTS:
The grantee shall file annually with the village no later than one hundred
twenty (120) days after the end of the grantee's fiscal year, a copy of a gross
revenues statement certified by the chief financial officer of the grantee.
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-33: REMOVAL OF CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM:
Upon termination of the rights granted in a franchise agreement pursuant to
this article, the grantee shall remove designated portions of the cable
television system from the streets and public property within the village as
may be required to serve the public interest. Upon such notice of removal, a
bond shall be furnished or an existing bond maintained by the grantee in an
amount sufficient to cover this expense. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-34: REQUIRED SERVICES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Minimum Bandwidth: The cable television system plant shall have a
minimum bandwidth of 750 MHz.
   B.   Two-Way Capabilities: Such system shall include the technical ability
to be activated for "two-way" communications.
   C.   Channel Maintenance: The grantee shall maintain the following:
      1.   At least one specially designated channel for use by local
educational authorities;
      2.   At least one specially designated channel for local governmental
uses;
   D.   Emergency Alert Override System: The grantee shall incorporate into its
cable television system the capacity to permit the village, in times of
emergency, to override by telephone the audio of all analog channels
simultaneously, which the grantee may lawfully override. The grantee shall
cooperate with the village in the use and operation of the emergency alert
override system. The village agrees to indemnify and hold the grantee harmless
from any damages or penalties arising out of the actions of the village, its
employees or agents in using such service.
   E.   Institutional Networks: Any grantee shall provide channel capacity on
grantee-owned institutional networks for educational and governmental use. Any
such network shall be referred to in the franchise agreement as the
institutional network (I-NET). The I-NET shall be capable of transmitting two-
way audio, video and data information. The terms and conditions for such usage
by educational and governmental authorities, including compensation to the
grantee for such usage, if any, shall be set forth in the franchise agreement.
   F.   Cooperation Required: The grantee shall cooperate to a reasonable
degree with any interconnection corporation, regional interconnection authority
or village, county, state and federal regulatory agency which may be hereafter
established for the purpose of regulating, financing, or otherwise providing
for the interconnection of cable systems beyond the boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-35: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   In addition to the statutory powers of the village to regulate and
control any cable television franchise, and those powers expressly reserved by
the village, or agreed to and provided for a franchise agreement, the right and
power is hereby reserved by the village to promulgate such additional
regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its lawful police
powers, provided, however, that such rules, regulations, terms and conditions
shall not be in conflict with the provisions herein, or those in a franchise
agreement or applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
   B.   The village may also adopt such regulations at the request of grantee
upon application. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-36: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SESSIONS:
   A.   The village and the grantee may hold scheduled performance evaluation
sessions within thirty (30) days of the third, sixth, and twelfth anniversary
dates of the grantee's award or renewal of the franchise and as may be required
by federal and state law. All such evaluation sessions shall be open to the
public.
   B.   Special evaluation sessions may be held at any time during the term of
the franchise at the request of the village or the grantee.
   C.   Topics which may be discussed at any scheduled or special evaluation
session may include, but are not limited to: service rate structures; franchise
fee, penalties, free or discounted services; application of new technologies;
system performance; services provided; programming offered; customer
complaints; privacy; amendments to this ordinance; judicial and FCC rulings;
line extension policies; and grantee or village rules. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-
2000)
6-7E-37: RATE CHANGE PROCEDURES:
Pursuant to the cable television consumer protection and competition act of
1992, as amended, the village of Lake Barrington may regulate the basic service
rates charged by grantee. Under these rules, grantee may be required to obtain
approval from the village for a rate increase for any change to the rates for
basic service. Should federal or state law permit further rate regulation
beyond the basic service the village of Lake Barrington may assume such rate
regulation and adopt appropriate procedures for such regulation. (Ord. 2000-O-
20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-38: INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION:
   A.   Substantial Breach: In addition to all other rights and powers retained
by the village under this article or otherwise, the village may terminate the
franchise agreement and all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder in
the event of a substantial breach of its terms and conditions. A substantial
breach by the grantee shall include:
      1.   The grantee continues to violate a material provision of the
franchise or any material rule, order, regulation or determination after
written notice from the village and reasonable opportunity to cure;
      2.   The grantee practices any material fraud in its conduct in obtaining
or operating the franchise;
      3.   The grantee fails to begin or complete system construction, or to
complete any upgrade of the cable system required in a franchise agreement;
      4.   The grantee fails to pay taxes or franchise fees, or penalties when
and as due the village;
      5.   The grantee fails to maintain required insurance coverage;
      6.   The grantee fails to restore system-wide service after forty eight
(48) consecutive hours of interrupted service, provided the grantee's failure
to restore system-wide service is not caused by circumstances or events beyond
the grantee's reasonable control;
      7.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee;
      8.   The grantee transfers of the franchise without village approval
pursuant to section
6-7E-29 of this article;
      9.   The grantee abandons its franchise. The grantee shall be deemed to
have abandoned its franchise if it wilfully refuses or is unable to operate the
cable system as required by this franchise, when there is no event beyond the
grantee's control that prevents the operation of the cable system, and where
operation would not endanger the health or safety of the public or property.
   B.   Without Fault Of Grantee: The foregoing shall not constitute a major
breach if the violation occurs but is without fault of the grantee or occurs as
a result of circumstances beyond its control. The grantee shall not be excused
by mere economic hardship nor by misfeasance or malfeasance of its directors,
officers or employees.
   C.   Written Notice: The village, at its option, may make a written demand
that the grantee comply with any such provision, rule, order or determination
under or pursuant to the franchise. If the violation by the grantee continues
for a period of thirty (30) days following such written demand is received by
the grantee without written proof that the corrective action has been taken or
is being actively and expeditiously pursued, the village may place the issue of
termination of the franchise before the village board. The village shall give
the grantee written notice, at least twenty (20) days prior to the date of such
meeting of the village board, of its intent to request such termination and the
time and place of the board meeting. Public notice shall be given of the
meeting and the issue(s) which the board is to consider.
   D.   Hearing By Village Board: The village board shall hear and consider the
issue(s) and shall hear any person interested therein and shall determine
findings of fact concerning whether or not any violation by the grantee has
occurred.
   E.   Board Action; Compliance Or Termination: If the village board
determines that the violation by the grantee was the fault of the grantee and
within its control, the board may, by ordinance declare that the franchise of
the grantee shall be involuntarily terminated; however, the village shall also
allow the grantee an opportunity for compliance within such period as the board
may fix, which period shall be reasonable to effect compliance.
   F.   Expiration Of Compliance Period: The issue of involuntary termination
may automatically be placed upon the village's agenda at the expiration of the
time set by it for compliance. The village may then terminate the franchise
forthwith upon finding that the grantee has failed to achieve compliance or it
may further extend the period at its discretion.
   G.   Removal Of Cable System Plant And Equipment: If, upon revocation of
grantee's franchise, the village does not elect to purchase the cable system,
and no sale of the cable system is made to a successor grantee, then the
village shall require that grantee terminate and dismantle the cable system,
including its wiring, equipment, headend facilities, if located within the
village limits, and related appurtenances except that in the event that the
grantee is providing telecommunications services as defined by the cable act
the grantee shall not be required to remove those facilities which provide said
services. Upon completion of termination and dismantling of the cable system,
grantee shall, upon direction by village, restore any property, public or
private, to the condition in which it existed prior to erection or construction
of the cable system, including any improvements made to such property
subsequent to construction of the system. Restoring of village property,
including all public streets and public ways as defined herein, and other
public lands, shall be in accordance with the directions and specifications of
the village set forth herein and all applicable laws. Grantee shall restore
said public streets, public ways and properties at its expense. (Ord. 2000-O-
20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-39: FORECLOSURE:
Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the
system, the grantee shall notify the village of such fact, and such
notification shall be treated as a notification that a change in control of the
grantee has taken place, and the provisions of the franchise governing the
consent of the village to such change in control of the grantee shall apply.
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-40: RECEIVERSHIP:
The village shall have the right to cancel a franchise one hundred twenty (120)
days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct
the business of the grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of one hundred
twenty (120) days, or unless:
   A.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after his/her election or
appointment, such receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the
provisions of this article and remedied all defaults thereunder or presented a
reasonable plan for said remedy; and
   B.   Such receiver or trustee, within the one hundred twenty (120) days,
shall have executed an agreement, duly approved by the court having
jurisdiction in the premises, whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and
agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this article and the
franchise granted to the grantee or as may otherwise be agreed to by the
village. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-41: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the franchise to the contrary,
the grantee and the village shall at all times comply with all laws and
regulations of the state and federal government or any administrative agencies
thereof.
   B.   If the village determines that a material provision of this article is
affected by any subsequent action of the state or federal government, the
village shall modify any of the provisions herein to such reasonable extent as
may be necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this article to
the extent practicable and enforceable. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-42: LANDLORD; TENANT:
   A.   Interference With Cable Service Prohibited: Neither the owner of any
multiple-unit residential dwelling nor his agent or representative shall
interfere with the right of any tenant or lawful resident thereof to receive
cable television service, cable installation or maintenance from a cable
television grantee regulated by and lawfully operating under a valid and
existing franchise issued by the village.
   B.   Penalties And Charges To Tenants For Service Prohibited: Neither the
owner of any multiple-unit residential dwelling nor his agent or representative
shall penalize, charge or surcharge a tenant or resident or forfeit or threaten
to forfeit any right of such tenant or resident, or discriminate in any way
against such tenant or resident who requests or receives cable television
service from a grantee operating under a valid and existing cable television
franchise issued by the village. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-43: APPLICANTS' BIDS FOR INITIAL FRANCHISE:
   A.   All bids received by the village from the applicants for an initial
franchise will become the sole property of the village.
   B.   The village reserves the right to reject any and all bids and waive
informalities and/or technicalities where the best interest of the village may
be served.
   C.   All questions regarding the meaning or intent of this article or
application documents shall be submitted to the village in writing. Replies
will be issued by addenda mailed or delivered to all parties recorded by the
village as having received the application documents. The village reserves the
right to make extensions of time for receiving bids as it deems necessary.
Questions received less than fourteen (14) days prior to the date for the
opening of bids will not be answered. Only replies to questions by written
addenda will be binding. All bids must contain an acknowledgment of receipt of
all addenda.
   D.   Bids must be sealed, and submitted at the time and place indicated in
the application documents for the public opening. Bids may be modified at any
time prior to the opening of the bids, provided that any modifications must be
duly executed in the manner that the applicant's bid must be executed. No bid
shall be opened or inspected before the public opening.
   E.   Before submitting a bid, each applicant must:
      1.   Examine this article and the application documents thoroughly;
      2.   Familiarize himself/herself with local conditions that may in any
manner affect performance under the franchise;
      3.   Familiarize himself/herself with federal, state and local laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations affecting performance under the franchise;
and
      4.   Carefully correlate the bid with the requirements of this article
and the application documents.
   F.   The village may make such investigations as it deems necessary to
determine the ability of the applicant to perform under the franchise, and the
applicant shall furnish to the village all such information and data for this
purpose as the village may request. The village reserves the right to reject
any bid if the evidence submitted by, or investigation of, such applicant fails
to satisfy the village that such applicant is properly qualified to carry out
the obligations of the franchise and to complete the work contemplated therein.
Conditional bids will not be accepted.
   G.   All bids received shall be placed in a secure depository approved by
the village and shall not be opened nor inspected prior to the public opening.
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-44: FINANCIAL, CONTRACTUAL, SHAREHOLDER AND SYSTEM DISCLOSURE FOR
FRANCHISES:
   A.   No franchise will be granted to any applicant unless all requirements
and demands of the village regarding financial, contractual, shareholder and
system technology disclosures have been met.
   B.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall fully disclose all agreements and undertakings, whether
written or oral, or implied with any person, firm, group, association or
corporation with respect to the franchise and the proposed cable television
system. The grantee of a franchise shall disclose all other contracts to the
village as the contracts are made. This section shall include, but not be
limited to, any agreements between local applicants and national companies.
   C.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall submit all requested information as provided by the terms
of this article or the application documents, which are incorporated into the
franchise agreement by reference. The requested information must be complete
and verified as true by the applicant.
   D.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall disclose the numbers of shares of stock, and the holders
thereof, and shall include the amount of consideration for each share of stock
and the nature of the consideration.
   E.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall disclose any information required by the application
documents regarding other cable systems in which they hold an interest of any
nature, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Locations of all other franchises and the dates of award for each
location;
      2.   Estimated construction costs and estimated completion dates for each
system;
      3.   Estimated number of miles of construction and number of miles
completed in each system as of the date of this application; and
      4.   Date for completion of construction as promised in the application
for each system.
   F.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall disclose any information required by the application
documents regarding pending applications for other cable systems, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Location of other franchise applications and date of application for
each system;
      2.   Estimated dates of franchise awards;
      3.   Estimated number of miles of construction; and
      4.   Estimated construction costs.
      5.   Applicants shall also provide the following information to establish
their technical, legal and financial qualifications: a) a detailed corporate
structure of the applicant including identities of parent and subsidiary
corporations or partnership; b) the identities of shareholders of five percent
(5%) or more of the stock of applicant and any parent organizations, and the
identities of all officers and directors of the applicant; and c) a detailed
financial pro forma for the proposed cable system including sources and uses of
funds and detailed capital and operating projections by category. (Ord. 2000-O-
20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-45: FRANCHISE VIOLATION; NOTICE AND PROCEDURES:
A grantee shall comply with the requirements of this article and the franchise
agreement at all times during the term of its franchise. If the village has
reason to believe that a grantee has committed a certain violation of this
article or the franchise agreement, the village may act to remedy the
violation.
   A.   Remedies Retained: No provision of this article shall be deemed to bar
or otherwise limit the right of the village to seek or obtain judicial relief
from a violation of any provision of the franchise or any rule, regulation,
requirement, or directive promulgated thereunder. Neither the existence of
other remedies identified in this article nor the exercise thereof shall be
deemed to bar or otherwise limit the right of the village to recover monetary
damages, except where liquidated damages are otherwise prescribed, for such
violation by the grantee, or judicial enforcement of the grantee's obligations
by means of specific performance, injunction relief or mandate, or any other
remedy available contractually, at law or in equity.
   B.   Liquidated Damages: By acceptance of the franchise, each grantee shall
agree that failure to comply with any time and performance requirements as
stipulated in this article and the franchise agreement will result in damage to
the village that is not readily ascertainable. The applicable franchise
agreement shall include provisions for liquidated damages to be paid by the
grantee, in amounts set forth below.
   C.   Violation Procedures:
      1.   Notice Of Violations: Written notice shall be given to a grantee
setting forth the nature of the violation and a reasonable period of time for a
grantee to correct the violation. Unless the village determines that the
violation is of such a nature that a lesser period of time is warranted for
remedying the violation, a grantee shall be given thirty (30) days after
receipt of such notice to remedy the violation.
      2.   Answer To Notice Of Violations: Within thirty (30) days, or such
other period of time specified by the village in its notice to a grantee, a
grantee shall respond in writing to the village:
         a.   That it contests the village's notice of violation and requests
an opportunity to be heard as provided herein. A grantee shall submit
supporting documentation with its response to the notice, or
         b.   That it contests the village's notice of violation for the
reasons that the violation was beyond the reasonable control of a grantee and
requests an opportunity to be heard as provided herein. A grantee shall submit
supporting documentation with its response to the notice, or
         c.   That a grantee will remedy the violation within the time
specified by the village in its notice to a grantee.
         d.   If a grantee contends that an extended period of time is
reasonably needed to remedy the violation, it shall submit a written request
for an extension, together with supporting documentation that a grantee cannot
reasonably remedy the violation within the time period specified by the village
in its notice to a grantee. The village shall not unreasonably deny an
extension of time to remedy the violation. If the village grants the extension,
a grantee shall proceed to remedy the violation within the extended time
prescribed, provided that a grantee also informs the village on a regular basis
of the steps being taken to remedy the violation.
      3.   Hearing: The village shall give a grantee not less than fourteen
(14) days' written notice of the date, time and place of the public hearing to
be held before the village board. At the public hearing, the village board
shall hear and determine the issues and render its findings and its decision.
If a hearing officer has been appointed by the village, the hearing officer
shall hear the relevant evidence and shall render a record of the
administrative hearing and recommended findings and decision to the village
board.
      4.   Determination: If the grantee fails to submit a written response to
the village's notice of violation as provided in subsection C2 of this section,
or if a grantee fails to remedy the violation within the time period specified
by the village in its notice to a grantee, or any extensions thereto granted by
the village, or if the village board is persuaded after a hearing that a
grantee has committed a violation as provided herein, the village board may,
after giving a grantee an opportunity to be heard:
         a.   Order a grantee to remedy the violation within a reasonable
period of time specified by the village board;
         b.   Assess liquidated damages against a grantee in accordance with
the franchise agreement.
         c.   Impose any lesser sanction permitted by a franchise agreement.
      5.   Judicial Relief Not Barred: No provision of this section shall be
deemed to bar or otherwise limit the right of the franchising authority to seek
or obtain judicial relief to enforce the provisions of this article, including,
but not limited to, fines and/or injunctive relief. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-46: LIQUIDATED DAMAGES:
   A.   Amounts: Because grantee's failure to comply with or to perform certain
obligations under this article or the franchise agreement, or its failure to do
so in a timely manner, may result in damage to the village that is difficult to
determine, the village and the grantee agree to the following liquidated
damages as the liquidated sum or sums to be reasonable paid in light of the
anticipated loss caused by or resulting from the specified violation, default
and resulting injury:
      1.   Failure to provide data, documents, applications or reports,
including financial reports, with the village: up to $100.00/day or any part
thereof until filed.
      2.   Failure of grantee to provide or maintain required insurance
coverage: up to $200.00/day from time insurance lapsed until policy is
reinstated.
      3.   Failure of grantee to maintain required bonds, letters of credit or
security fund: up to $200.00/day from time due.
      4.   Failure of grantee to comply with customer service standards subject
to applicable law: up to $100.00/day.
      5.   Failure to substantially complete required restoration of public
ways disturbed by the grantee or its contractors, unless delay has been
approved by the village: up to $100.00/day until restoration is completed.
      6.   Working in the public street or way without a required village
permit: up to $500.00/day.
      7.   Wilful failure to carry PEG programming generated within the village
by the village or its designated programmers in compliance with the franchise
agreement: $100.00/day.
   B.   Accrual Of Liquidated Damages: Unless otherwise specified in this
article, liquidated damages accrue from the date written notice of the
violation is given.
   C.   Assessment Of Liquidated Damages: Before assessing liquidated damages
against the grantee, the village shall give written notice to the grantee, and
an opportunity to cure the violation as provided herein.
   D.   Effect On Grantee's Franchise Duties: The assessment and collection of
liquidated damages shall not affect grantee's obligation to comply with the
provisions of this article, the agreement, or applicable law.
   E.   Other Remedies: If the village elects to assess liquidated damages,
such election shall constitute the exclusive remedy for a period of thirty (30)
days. Thereafter, if the grantee remains in noncompliance with the requirement
of this article or the franchise agreement, the village may pursue any remedy,
pursuant to the village of Lake Barrington municipal code, this article, the
franchise agreement, or pursuant to law, including, but not limited to, fines
and/or injunctive relief. (Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-47: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
6-7E-48: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2000-O-20, 10-3-2000)
ARTICLE F. FEES AND COMPENSATION
SECTION:
6-7F-1: Purpose
6-7F-2: Application And Review Fee
6-7F-3: Other Village Costs
6-7F-4: Reserved Compensation For Public Ways
6-7F-5: Compensation For Village Property
6-7F-6: Construction Permit Fee
6-7F-7: Annual Fees
6-7F-8: Cable Fees
6-7F-9: Regulatory Fees And Compensation Not A Tax
6-7F-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Article to provide for the payment and recovery of
all direct and indirect costs and expenses of the Village related to the
enforcement and administration of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-2: APPLICATION AND REVIEW FEE:
   A.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to Articles C or D of
this Chapter shall pay a fee of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
or one percent (1%) of the estimated cost of applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities, as certified by the applicant's professional
engineer, whichever is greater.
   B.   The application and review fee shall be deposited with the Village as
part of the application filed pursuant to Article C or Article D of this
Chapter.
   C.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been withdrawn,
abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its application and review
fee written request, be refunded the unused balance of its deposit under this
Section, less all ascertainable costs and expenses incurred by the Village in
connection with the application. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-3: OTHER VILLAGE COSTS:
All license or franchise grantees shall, within thirty (30) days after written
demand therefor, reimburse the Village for all direct and indirect costs and
expenses incurred by the Village in connection with any modification,
amendment, renewal or transfer of the license or franchise or any license or
franchise agreement. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-4: RESERVED COMPENSATION FOR PUBLIC WAYS:
The Village reserves its right to annually fix a fair and reasonable
compensation to be paid for the property rights granted to a telecommunications
license or franchise grantee. Nothing in this Article shall prohibit the
Village and a grantee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid for the
granted property rights. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-5: COMPENSATION FOR VILLAGE PROPERTY:
If the right is granted, by lease, license, franchise or other manner, to use
and occupy Village property for the installation of telecommunications
facilities, the compensation to be paid shall be fixed by the Village. (Ord.
97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-6: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE:
Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the permittee shall pay a permit
fee equal to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and ten dollars
($10.00) per lineal foot for augured cuts, whichever is greater, or one percent
(1%) of the estimated cost of constructing the telecommunications facilities,
as certified by the applicant's engineer and approved by the Village Engineer,
whichever is greater. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-7: ANNUAL FEES:
   A.   Unless otherwise agreed in a license agreement, each licensee shall pay
an annual license fee to the Village equal to the greater of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), or the total of the following: one dollar ($1.00) per
lineal foot of overhead facilities of the licensee within the corporate limits
of the Village, one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per lineal foot of underground
facilities of the licensee within the corporate limits of the Village requiring
excavation of any right of way, and fifty cents ($0.50) per lineal foot of
underground facilities of the licensee within the corporate limits of the
Village not requiring the excavation of any right of way as reimbursement for
the Village's costs in connection with reviewing, inspecting and supervising
the use and occupancy of the public ways on behalf of the public and existing
and/or future users. All such fees shall be paid prior to the first day of the
calendar year to which they apply.
   B.   Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise agreement, each franchisee shall
pay an annual franchise fee of five percent (5.0%) of the gross revenue derived
from all services originating and terminating end-user to end-user within the
Village and five percent (5.0%) of a prorated portion of the gross revenue
derived from services that either originate but do not terminate or terminate
but do not originate within the corporate limits of the Village, as
reimbursement for the Village's costs in connection with reviewing, inspecting
and supervising the use and occupancy of the public ways on behalf of the
public and existing and/or future users. However, such franchise fee shall be
reduced by a credit for any utility taxes, telecommunication taxes, or other
locally imposed fees paid by the franchisee during the quarter in question. All
such fees shall be paid quarterly, and shall be due not less than thirty (30)
days after the end of the calendar quarter to which such fees relate. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-8: CABLE FEES:
Cable television franchisees shall be subject to the franchise fees, payments
and costs provided in Article E of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7F-9: REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX:
The regulatory fees and costs provided for in this Article, and any
compensation charged and paid for the public ways provided for in Section
6-7F-4 of this Article, are separate from, and additional to, any and all
Federal, State, local and Village taxes as may be levied, imposed or due from a
telecommunications carrier or provider, its customers or subscribers, or on
account of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of telecommunications
services. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE G. CONDITIONS OF GRANT
SECTION:
6-7G-1: Location Of Facilities
6-7G-2: Compliance With JULIE
6-7G-3: Construction Permits
6-7G-4: Interference With The Public Ways
6-7G-5: Damage To Property
6-7G-6: Notice Of Work
6-7G-7: Repair And Emergency Work
6-7G-8: Maintenance Of Facilities
6-7G-9: Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities
6-7G-10: Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities
6-7G-11: Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities
6-7G-12: Damage To Grantee's Facilities
6-7G-13: Restoration Of Public Ways, Other Ways And Village Property
6-7G-14: Facilities Maps
6-7G-15: Duty To Provide Information
6-7G-16: Leased Capacity
6-7G-17: Grantee Insurance
6-7G-18: General Indemnification
6-7G-19: Performance And Construction Surety
6-7G-20: Security Fund
6-7G-21: Construction And Completion Security
6-7G-22: Coordination Of Construction Activities
6-7G-23: Assignments Or Transfers Of Grant
6-7G-24: Transactions Affecting Control Of Grant
6-7G-25: Revocation Or Termination Of Grant
6-7G-26: Notice And Duty To Cure
6-7G-27: Hearing
6-7G-28: Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions
6-7G-1: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
All facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in accordance with
the following terms and conditions, unless otherwise specified in a license or
franchise agreement:
   A.   A grantee shall install its telecommunications facilities within an
existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within
such utility facility.
   B.   A grantee with permission to install overhead facilities shall install
its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles
only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the Village
Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption
of the public ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-2: COMPLIANCE WITH JULIE:
All license or franchise grantees shall, before commencing any construction in
the public ways, comply with all regulations of JULIE. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-3: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
All license or franchise grantees are required to obtain construction permits
for telecommunications facilities as required in Article H of this Chapter.
However, nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Village and a grantee from
agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction procedures in a
license or franchise agreement, provided such alternative procedures provide
substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction practices.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-4: INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC WAYS:
No license or franchise grantee may locate or maintain its telecommunications
facilities so as to unreasonably interfere with the use of the public ways by
the Village, by the general public or by other persons authorized to use or be
present in or upon the public ways. All such facilities shall be moved by the
grantee, temporarily or permanently, as determined by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-5: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
No license or franchise grantee nor any person acting on a grantee's behalf
shall take any action or permit any action to be done which may impair or
damage any Village property, public ways of the Village, other ways or other
property located in, on or adjacent thereto. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-6: NOTICE OF WORK:
Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, no license or
franchise grantee, nor any person acting on the grantee's behalf, shall
commence any nonemergency work in or about the public ways of the Village or
other ways without ten (10) working days' advance notice to the Village. (Ord.
97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-7: REPAIR AND EMERGENCY WORK:
In the event of an unexpected repair or emergency, a grantee may commence such
repair and emergency response work as required under the circumstances,
provided the grantee shall notify the Village as promptly as possible, before
such repair or emergency work or as soon thereafter as possible if advance
notice is not practicable. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-8: MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES:
Each license or franchise grantee shall maintain its facilities in good and
safe condition and in a manner that complies with all applicable Federal, State
and local requirements. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-9: RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF FACILITIES:
Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Village, a license or
franchise grantee shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any telecommunications facilities
within the public ways whenever the corporate authorities shall have determined
that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary
for:
   A.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any Village or
other public improvement in or upon the public ways.
   B.   The operations of the Village or other governmental entity in or upon
the public ways. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-10: REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES:
Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Village, any grantee,
telecommunications carrier, or other person that owns, controls or maintains
any unauthorized telecommunications system, facility or related appurtenances
within the public ways of the Village shall, at its own expense, remove such
facilities or appurtenances from the public ways of the Village. A
telecommunications system or facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
   A.   Upon expiration or termination of the grantee's telecommunications
license or franchise.
   B.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the Village.
   C.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior grant of a telecommunications license or franchise.
   D.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior issuance of a required construction permit.
   E.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications license or franchise. (Ord.
97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-11: EMERGENCY REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
The Village retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the public ways of the Village, as
the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to
any public health or safety emergency. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-12: DAMAGE TO GRANTEE'S FACILITIES:
Unless directly and proximately caused by the wilful, intentional or malicious
acts by the Village, the Village shall not be liable for any damage to or loss
of any telecommunications facility within the public ways of the Village as a
result of or in connection with any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind in the public
ways by or on behalf of the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-13: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS, OTHER WAYS AND VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   When a licensee or franchisee, or any person acting on its behalf, does
any work in or affecting any public ways, other ways or Village property, it
shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and
restore such ways or property to as good a condition as existed before the work
was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the Village.
   B.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete restoration
required by this Section, the grantee shall temporarily restore the affected
ways or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the licensee's or
franchisee's sole expense and the licensee or franchisee shall promptly
undertake and complete the required permanent restoration when the weather or
other conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration, but in no event
more than thirty (30) days after stated date of completion of the work in the
permit. Failure to complete the work within the time stated within the permit
or on or before the completion date stipulated in the permit or within such
extended time as may have been allowed, the licensee or franchisee shall be
liable to the Village in the amount shown in the following schedule of
deductions, not as a penalty but as liquidated damages, for each day of overrun
in the time or such extended time as may have been allowed as follows:
      SCHEDULE OF DEDUCTIONS FOR
      EACH DAY OF OVERRUN IN PERMIT TIME
                 OriginDaily Charge Calendar Day
From More Than To And Including
                 OriginDaily Charge Calendar Day
From More Than To And Including
$ 0.00         $ 25,000.00              $ 235.00
25,000.00      100,000.00               325.00
100,000.00     500,000.00               410.00
500,000.00     1,000,000.00             575.00
1,000,000.00   2,000,000.00             735.00
2,000,000.00   3,000,000.00             895.00
3,000,000.00   5,000,000.00             1,075.00
5,000,000.00   7,500,000.00             1,285.00
7,500,000.00   10,000,000.00            1,500.00
10,000,000.00  15,000,000.00            1,925.00
15,000,000.00  20,000,000.00            2,425.00
20,000,000.00  25,000,000.00            2,925.00
25,000,000.00  30,000,000.00            3,425.00
30,000,000.00  35,000,000.00            3,925.00
35,000,000.00  and over                 4,425.00
 
   C.   A grantee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting such
ways or property. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-14: FACILITIES MAPS:
Each license or franchise grantee shall provide the Village with an accurate
map or maps certifying the location of all telecommunications facilities within
the public ways. Each grantee shall provide updated maps annually. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-15: DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION:
Within ten (10) days of a written request from the Village Administrator each
license or franchise grantee shall furnish the Village with information
sufficient to demonstrate:
   A.   That grantee has complied with all requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   That all Municipal sales, message and/or telecommunications taxes due
the Village in connection with the telecommunications services and facilities
provided by the grantee have been properly collected and paid by the grantee.
   C.   All books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the grantee
with respect to its facilities within the public ways, shall be made available
for inspection by the Village at reasonable times and intervals. (Ord. 97-O-10,
5-6-1997)
6-7G-16: LEASED CAPACITY:
A license or franchise grantee shall have the right, without prior Village
approval, to offer or provide capacity or bandwidth to its customers; provided:
   A.   Grantee shall furnish the Village with a copy of any such lease or
agreement.
   B.   The customer or lessee has complied, to the extent applicable, with the
requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-17: GRANTEE INSURANCE:
Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, each grantee
shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following liability
insurance policies insuring both the grantee and the Village, and its elected
and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as coinsureds:
   A.   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than:
      1.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
      2.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
      3.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
   B.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person and three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
   C.   Worker's compensation within statutory limits and employer's liability
insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
   D.   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse hazard,
underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not less than
three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) and umbrella liability with limits of not
less than ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00).
   E.   The liability insurance policies required by this Section shall be
maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications license
or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license hereunder, or is engaged in the
removal of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall
contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be cancelled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the Village
Administrator of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
   F.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and
in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the grantee
shall obtain and furnish to the Village replacement insurance policies meeting
the requirements of this Section. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-18: GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION:
Each license or franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted by
law, grantee's express undertaking to defend, indemnify and hold the Village
and its officers, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and
against any and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to
arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the grantee or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction,
operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its telecommunications facilities,
and in providing or offering telecommunications services over the facilities or
network, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited
by this Chapter or by a grant agreement made or entered into pursuant to this
Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-19: PERFORMANCE AND CONSTRUCTION SURETY:
Before a license or franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter is effective,
and as necessary thereafter, the grantee shall provide and deposit such monies,
bonds, letters of credit or other instruments in form and substance acceptable
to the Village as may be required by this Chapter or by an applicable license
or franchise agreement. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-20: SECURITY FUND:
Each licensee or franchisee shall establish a permanent security fund with the
Village by depositing an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit in the
amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), which fund shall be maintained
at the sole expense of grantee so long as any of grantee's telecommunications
facilities are located within the public ways of the Village.
   A.   The fund shall serve as security for the full and complete performance
of this Chapter, including any costs, expenses, damages or loss the Village
pays or incurs because of any failure attributable to the grantee to comply
with the codes, ordinances, rules, regulations or permits of the Village.
   B.   Before any sums are withdrawn from the security fund, the Village shall
give written notice to the grantee:
      1.   Describing the act, default or failure to be remedied, or the
damages, cost or expenses which the Village has incurred by reason of grantee's
act or default;
      2.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for grantee to first remedy the
existing or ongoing default or failure, if applicable;
      3.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for grantee to pay any monies due
the Village before the Village withdraws the amount thereof from the security
fund, if applicable;
      4.   That the grantee will be given an opportunity to review the act,
default or failure described in the notice with the Village Administrator or
his designee.
   C.   Grantees shall replenish the security fund within fourteen (14) days
after written notice from the Village that there is a deficiency in the amount
of the fund. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-21: CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION SECURITY:
   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, a performance
bond written by a corporate surety acceptable to the Village or an irrevocable
letter of credit equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated
cost of constructing grantee's telecommunications facilities within the public
ways of the Village shall be deposited before construction is commenced.
   A.   The construction bond shall remain in force until sixty (60) days after
substantial completion of the work, as determined by the Village Engineer,
including restoration of public ways and other property affected by the
construction.
   B.   The construction bond shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
Village:
      1.   Timely completion of construction;
      2.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits, technical
codes and standards;
      3.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the Village;
      4.   Restoration of the public ways and other property affected by the
construction;
      5.   The submission of "as-built" drawings after completion of the work
as required by this Chapter.
      6.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens for
labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997; amd. Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-2024)
6-7G-22: COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
All grantees are required to cooperate with the Village and with each other.
   A.   By February 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the Village with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public ways.
   B.   Each grantee shall meet with the Village, other grantees and users of
the public ways annually or as determined by the Village to schedule and
coordinate construction in the public ways.
   C.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the Village Engineer, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption or damages. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-23: ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF GRANT:
Ownership or control of a telecommunications system, license or franchise may
not, directly or indirectly, be transferred, assigned or disposed of by sale,
lease, merger, consolidation or other act of the grantee, by operation of law
or otherwise, without the prior consent of the Village, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed, as expressed by ordinance and then only on
such reasonable conditions as may be prescribed therein.
   A.   No grant shall be assigned or transferred in any manner within twelve
(12) months after the initial grant of the license or franchise, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
   B.   Absent extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances, no grant, system
or integral part of a system shall be assigned or transferred before
construction of the telecommunications system has been completed.
   C.   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the grant or system
shall provide and certify the following information to the Village not less
than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the proposed date of transfer:
      1.   Complete information setting forth the nature, terms and condition
of the proposed transfer or assignment;
      2.   All information required of a telecommunications license or
franchise applicant pursuant to Article C or D of this Chapter with respect to
the proposed transferee or assignee;
      3.   Any other information reasonably required by the Village.
   D.   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has the
legal, technical, financial and other requisite qualifications to own, hold and
operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this Chapter.
   E.   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, the
grantee shall reimburse the Village for all direct and indirect fees, costs,
and expenses reasonably incurred by the Village in considering a request to
transfer or assign a telecommunications license or franchise.
   F.   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications grant, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the Village under this
Section or pursuant to a license or franchise agreement shall be void and is
cause for revocation of the grant. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-24: TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING CONTROL OF GRANT:
Any transactions which singularly or collectively result in a change of ten
percent (10%) or more of the ownership or working control of the grantee, of
the ownership or working control of a telecommunications license or franchise,
of the ownership or working control of affiliated entities having ownership or
working control of the grantee or of a telecommunications system, or of control
of the capacity or bandwidth of grantee's telecommunication system, facilities
or substantial parts thereof, shall be considered an assignment or transfer
requiring Village approval pursuant to Section
6-7G-23 of this Article. Transactions between affiliated entities are not
exempt from Village approval. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-25: REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF GRANT:
A license or franchise granted by the Village to use or occupy public ways of
the Village may be revoked for the following reasons:
   A.   Construction or operation in the Village or in the public ways of the
Village without a license or franchise grant of authorization.
   B.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
   C.   Unauthorized substantial transfer of control of the grantee.
   D.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise.
   E.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of grantee's franchise or
license assets, or a substantial interest therein.
   F.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of a grantee in any
application to the Village.
   G.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public ways.
   H.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this Chapter.
   I.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due the
Village.
   J.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
   K.   Violation of material provisions of this Chapter.
   L.   Violation of the material terms of a license or franchise agreement.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-26: NOTICE AND DUTY TO CURE:
In the event that the Village Administrator believes that grounds exist for
revocation of a license or franchise, he shall give the grantee written notice
of the apparent violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise
statement of the nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance,
and providing the grantee a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30)
days to furnish evidence:
   A.   That corrective action has been, or is being actively and expeditiously
pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
   B.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
   C.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-27: HEARING:
In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence reasonably satisfactory
to the Village Administrator as provided in Section
6-7G-26 of this Article, the Village Administrator shall refer the apparent
violation or noncompliance to the corporate authorities. The corporate
authorities shall provide the grantee with notice and a reasonable opportunity
to be heard concerning the matter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7G-28: STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS:
If persuaded by a preponderance of the evidence that the grantee has violated
or failed to comply with material provisions of this Chapter, or of a franchise
or license agreement, the corporate authorities shall determine whether to
revoke the license or franchise, or to establish some lesser sanction and cure,
considering the nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation as
reflected by one or more of the following factors:
   A.   Whether the misconduct was egregious.
   B.   Whether substantial harm resulted.
   C.   Whether the violation was intentional.
   D.   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements.
   E.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
   F.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE H. CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-7H-1: General
6-7H-2: Construction Codes
6-7H-3: Construction Permits
6-7H-4: Applications
6-7H-5: Engineer's Certification
6-7H-6: Traffic-Control Plan
6-7H-7: Issuance Of Permit
6-7H-8: Construction Schedule
6-7H-9: Compliance With Permit
6-7H-10: Display Of Permit
6-7H-11: Survey Of Underground Facilities
6-7H-12: Noncomplying Work
6-7H-13: Completion Of Construction
6-7H-14: As-Built Drawings
6-7H-15: Restoration Of Improvements
6-7H-16: Landscape Restoration
6-7H-17: Construction Surety
6-7H-18: Exceptions
6-7H-19: Responsibility Of Owner
6-7H-1: GENERAL:
No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation or
operation of telecommunications facilities within the Village except as
provided in this Article. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-2: CONSTRUCTION CODES:
Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated and
maintained in accordance with all applicable Federal, State and local codes,
rules and regulations including the National Electrical Safety Code. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-3: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
No person shall construct or install any telecommunications facilities within
the Village without first obtaining a construction permit therefor, provided,
however:
   A.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within the Village unless the telecommunications
carrier has filed a registration statement with the Village pursuant to Article
B of this Chapter.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities in the public ways unless the telecommunications
carrier has applied for and received a license or franchise pursuant to Article
C, D or E of this Chapter.
   C.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities without payment of the construction permit fee
established in Section
6-7F-6 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-4: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for permits to construct telecommunications facilities shall be
submitted upon forms to be provided by the Village and shall be accompanied by
drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   A.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
   B.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles.
   C.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public ways.
   D.   The location of all existing underground utilities, conduits, ducts,
pipes, mains and installations which are within the public ways along the
underground route proposed by the applicant.
   E.   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within the
Village, but not within the public ways.
   F.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public ways.
   G.   The location, dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent to
the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together with a
landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any
trees or areas to be disturbed during construction. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-5: ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATION:
All permit applications shall be accompanied by the certification of a
registered professional engineer that the drawings, plans and specifications
submitted with the application comply with applicable technical codes, rules
and regulations. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-6: TRAFFIC-CONTROL PLAN:
All permit applications which involve work on, in, under, across or along any
public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic- control plan demonstrating the
protective measures and devices that will be employed, consistent with Uniform
Manual of Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Within forty five (45) days after submission of all plans and documents
required of the applicant and payment of the permit fees required by this
Chapter, the Village Engineer, if satisfied that the applications, plans and
document comply with all requirements of this Chapter, shall issue a permit
authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to such further conditions,
restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place and manner of performing
the work as he may deem necessary or appropriate. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-8: CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE:
The permittee shall submit a written construction schedule to the Village
Engineer ten (10) working days before commencing any work in or about the
public ways. The permittee shall further notify the Village Engineer not less
than two (2) working days in advance of any excavation or work in the public
ways. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-9: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT:
All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The
Village Engineer and his representatives shall be provided access to the work
and such further information as he or she may require to ensure compliance with
such requirements. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-10: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
The permittee shall maintain a copy of the construction permit and approved
plans at the construction site, which shall be displayed and made available for
inspection by the Village Engineer or his representatives at all times when
construction work is occurring. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-11: SURVEY OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES:
If the construction permit specifies the location of facilities by depth, line,
grade, proximity to other facilities or other standard, the permittee shall
cause the location of such facilities to be verified by a registered Illinois
land surveyor. The permittee shall relocate any facilities which are not
located in compliance with permit requirements. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-12: NONCOMPLYING WORK:
Upon order of the Village Engineer, all work which does not comply with the
permit, the approved plans and specifications for the work, or the requirements
of this Chapter, shall be removed. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-13: COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the Village ways and other public and private property.
All construction work authorized by a permit within Village ways, including
restoration, must be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days of the date
of issuance. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-14: AS-BUILT DRAWINGS:
Within sixty (60) days after completion of construction, the permittee shall
furnish the Village with two (2) complete sets of plans, drawn to scale and
certified to the Village as accurately depicting the location of all
telecommunications facilities constructed pursuant to the permit. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-15: RESTORATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon completion of any construction work, the permittee shall promptly repair
any and all public ways and provide property improvements, fixtures, structures
and facilities in the public ways or property otherwise damaged during the
course of construction, restoring the same as nearly as practicable to its
condition before the start of construction. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-16: LANDSCAPE RESTORATION:
   A.   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as a
result of the construction, installation, maintenance, repair or replacement of
telecommunications facilities, whether such work is done pursuant to a
franchise, license, or permit shall be replaced or restored as nearly as may be
practicable, to the condition existing prior to performance of work.
   B.   All restoration work within the public ways shall be done in accordance
with landscape plans approved by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-17: CONSTRUCTION SURETY:
Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the permittee shall provide a
performance bond, as provided in Section
6-7G-21 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-18: EXCEPTIONS:
Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, all
telecommunications carriers are subject to the requirements of this Article.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7H-19: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER:
The owner of the facilities to be constructed and, if different, the license or
franchise grantee, are responsible for performance of and compliance with all
provisions of this Article. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
ARTICLE I. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
6-7I-1: Definitions
6-7I-2: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Imposed
6-7I-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailer
6-7I-4: Returns To Department
6-7I-5: Resellers
6-7I-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the taxes authorized by this article, the following
definitions shall apply:
ACT: The simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1 .
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within a municipality that has imposed a tax under this
article and charges for the portion of the interoffice channels provided within
that municipality. Charges for that portion of the interoffice channel
connecting two (2) or more channel termination points, one or more of which is
located within the jurisdictional boundary of such municipality, shall be
determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total charge
for the interoffice channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of channel termination points that are located within the jurisdictional
boundary of the municipality and the denominator of which is the total number
of channel termination points connected by the interoffice channel. However,
"gross charge" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this article; 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to a customers'
bill pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and economic
opportunity;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this article has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices;
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act;
   J.   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: 1) those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable, 2) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice, and 3) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within the state of Illinois.
MUNICIPALITY: The village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court, the federal and state governments, including state universities created
by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision of the
state of Illinois.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
"sales at retail" as defined in this article. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this article.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, private
line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer
exchange services; cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized
mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any other form of
mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this article. For purpose of this article,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupation tax act. (Ord. 2013-O-15, 10-3-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
6-7I-2: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed under the authority of the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act 1  upon any and all of the following acts or
privileges for services billed on or after January 1, 2014:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6.00
percent of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail
from a retailer. To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event,
shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by
this section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in
the municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6.00
percent of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail
from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the
act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or
municipality in this state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any
tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the
amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state or such tax
properly due and paid in a municipality in this state which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in the state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this article is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 2013-O-15, 10-3-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
6-7I-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this article shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if unpaid, is
recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale at
retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
same manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2013-O-15, 10-3-2013)
6-7I-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before the last day of every month, the tax imposed under this article on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to the act and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act. (Ord. 2013-O-15, 10-3-2013)
6-7I-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2013-O-15, 10-3-2013)
CHAPTER 8
EMERGENCY ENERGY PLANS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Submittal Of Plan
6-8-3: Review Of Plan
6-8-4: Implementation Of Plan
6-8-5: Violations; Enforcement
6-8-6: Construction
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
CONTROL AREA: An electrical system bounded by interconnection (tie-line)
metering and telemetry. It controls generation directly to maintain its
interchange schedule with other control areas and contributes to frequency
regulations of the interconnection.
CONTROL AREA EMERGENCY: That control area is at risk of having to shed firm
load, having taken or committed to take all feasible mitigating action short of
shedding firm load and firm sales.
CONTROLLED ROTATING INTERRUPTIONS OF ELECTRICAL SERVICE: The implementation of
a plan to curtail electric service to firm load customers for a short period of
time and rotating this curtailment of electric service through different areas
within the electric utility's service territory in a situation where the demand
has exceeded or is at significant risk of exceeding the supply of electricity
available to the electric utility. The action of an electric utility to
interrupt or curtail electric service to a customer participating in or taking
service under an interruptible or curtailable rate is not included in this
definition of a "controlled rotating interruption of electric service".
ELECTRIC UTILITY COMPANY OR ELECTRIC UTILITY: Any person or entity engaged in
the business of distributing, transmitting, or otherwise delivering
electricity, regardless of its source, for use or consumption within the
village. This term shall not include any person or entity that delivers
electricity to fewer than fifty (50) customers within the village.
EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN: The portions of the emergency load conservation
procedures, which immediately preceded and include the controlled rotating
interruption of electrical service to firm load customers within the village.
The emergency energy plan shall include the following steps:
   A.   A request for emergency help from neighboring utilities;
   B.   A declaration of a control area emergency;
   C.   A public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use; and
   D.   Implementation of the plan for controlled rotating interruptions of
electrical service.
EMERGENCY LOAD CONSERVATION PROCEDURES: A planned course of action developed by
an electric utility company to be implemented in emergency situations when the
demand for electricity exceeds, or is at significant risk of exceeding, the
supply of electricity available to the electric utility. (Ord. 99-O-22, 11-2-
1999)
6-8-2: SUBMITTAL OF PLAN:
   A.   Every electric utility company must have adopted an emergency energy
plan no later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter,
or within thirty (30) days after becoming an electric utility company,
whichever is later. Every such electric utility company shall submit to the
village administrator an emergency energy plan adopted by the company no later
than thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter, or within
twenty four (24) hours of the time the plan is adopted, whichever is later. The
electric utility company shall be required to examine and update as needed its
emergency energy plan at least annually. The electric utility company shall
notify the foregoing public official(s) in writing of any material revisions to
its plan and the rationale for said revisions within five (5) business days of
the time said revisions are made.
   B.   The emergency energy plan shall include, at a minimum, information
detailing:
      1.   Circumstances that would require the implementation of the emergency
energy plan;
      2.   Stages of the emergency energy plan;
      3.   The approximate geographic limits of each outage area provided for
in the emergency energy plan;
      4.   The approximate number of customers within each outage area provided
for in the emergency energy plan;
      5.   The police facilities, fire stations, hospitals, nursing homes,
schools, daycare centers, senior citizen centers, community health centers,
dialysis centers, community mental health centers, correctional facilities,
storm water and wastewater treatment or pumping facilities, and water-pumping
stations that have been identified by the village and persons on life-support
systems that are known to the company, and that could be affected by controlled
rotating interruptions of electric service under the emergency energy plan; and
      6.   The anticipated sequence and duration of intentional interruptions
of electric service to each outage area under the emergency energy plan. (Ord.
99-O-22, 11-2-1999)
6-8-3: REVIEW OF PLAN:
   A.   Upon submittal of the emergency energy plan to the village, the village
shall review the emergency energy plan in order to determine if the emergency
energy plan is complete and to assure appropriate coordination with public
health and safety agencies. The village may reject the emergency energy plan if
it does not contain all the information required under subsection 6-8-2B of
this chapter, in which case the village shall notify the electric utility
company in writing of said rejection and the reasons therefor. The electric
utility company shall thereafter submit a complete emergency energy plan to the
village no later than thirty (30) days after such notice is sent by the
village.
   B.   The village and the electric utility shall work cooperatively to:
      1.   Identify customers and facilities for which a controlled rotating
interruption of electric service would require heightened response by village
public health and safety agencies;
      2.   Mitigate the potential impact of the plan on public health and
safety; and
      3.   Mitigate the potential impact of the plan on the duties of the
village's public health and safety agencies. (Ord. 99-O-22, 11-2-1999)
6-8-4: IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN:
   A.   Whenever an electric utility company determines that it may be
necessary to implement a controlled rotating interruption of electrical service
due to the demand for electricity exceeding, or being at significant risk of
exceeding, the supply of electricity available to the electric utility company,
the electric utility company shall do the following:
      1.   Take appropriate action in preparation for implementing a controlled
rotating interruption of electric service and notify the appropriate electric
utility company personnel, and
      2.   Notify the village administrator that the electric utility company
will be implementing its emergency energy plan. The notification shall be made
pursuant to a notification procedure approved by the village administrator
after consultation with the village administrator. The village administrator
may waive the notice requirement to accommodate exigent circumstances.
   B.   Subsequent to providing the notice as required above, an electric
utility company shall reasonably and separately advise the designated village
officials when it implements each of the steps of the emergency energy plan.
Such steps shall include the following:
      1.   A request for emergency help from neighboring utilities;
      2.   A declaration of a control area emergency;
      3.   A public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use.
   C.   The electric utility company shall give a separate notice to the
village administrator immediately upon the determination that there will be a
controlled rotating interruption of electric service pursuant to the emergency
energy plan. The notification shall include the areas to be interrupted; the
sequence and estimated duration of the service outage for each area; and the
affected feeders and number of affected customers in each area. Whenever
practical, the notification shall be made at least two (2) hours prior to the
time of the outages, and in no case shall the notification be made less than
thirty (30) minutes prior to the outages, if the company is aware that
controlled rotating interruptions may be required.
   D.   Notification required by this section shall be in addition to any
notification requirements set forth in any applicable franchise agreement or
franchise ordinance, or as may be required by applicable federal or state law
or regulation. (Ord. 99-O-22, 11-2-1999)
6-8-5: VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
Any electric utility company that knowingly violates this chapter or any rules
promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and not more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
The village may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction
or order to compel the other party to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 99-O-22, 11-2-1999)
6-8-6: CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to preclude or interfere with the
implementation by an electric utility company of measures necessary to assure
the provision of adequate, efficient, reliable and environmentally safe
service, as required by the Illinois public utilities act 1 . Nothing set forth
in this chapter shall be deemed to modify the terms of any existing franchise
agreement or franchise ordinance otherwise applicable to any electric utility
company, or to excuse any performance required by such agreement or ordinance,
or to limit any authority that may be exercised pursuant to such agreement or
ordinance, or to limit any remedy that may be available under such agreement or
ordinance. (Ord. 99-O-22, 11-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 9
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose And Scope
6-9-2: Definitions
6-9-3: Annual Registration Required
6-9-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
6-9-5: Action On Permit Applications
6-9-6: Effect Of Permit
6-9-7: Revised Permit Drawings
6-9-8: Insurance
6-9-9: Indemnification
6-9-10: Security
6-9-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
6-9-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
6-9-13: General Construction Standards
6-9-14: Traffic Control
6-9-15: Location Of Facilities
6-9-16: Construction Methods And Materials
6-9-17: Vegetation Control
6-9-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
6-9-19: Cleanup And Restoration
6-9-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
6-9-21: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
6-9-21-1: Purpose And Scope
6-9-21-2: Definitions
6-9-21-3: Regulations
6-9-21-4: Application Fees
6-9-21-5: Exceptions To Applicability
6-9-21-6: Existing Agreements Grandfathered For Existing Locations, If Any
6-9-21-7: Annual Recurring Rate
6-9-21-8: Aerial Facilities
6-9-21-9: Abandonment
6-9-21-10: Indemnification
6-9-21-11: Insurance
6-9-22: Variances
6-9-23: Penalties
6-9-24: Enforcement
6-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the Village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the Village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the Village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the Village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the Village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in one of the following authoritative sources, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise, and to the extent of any inconsistency among them, the
first named source which is applicable shall control: a) part 1 of title 47
USC; b) 47 USC, 151, et seq.; c) the FCC Order of September 26, 2018; d)
section 10 of Illinois Public Act 100-0585, the "Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act"; or e) in 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that operates from a fixed location and
transmits or receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of
any type of wireless communications services and any commingled information
services.
ANTENNA EQUIPMENT: Any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources,
shelters or cabinets associated with an antenna, located at the same general
fixed location as the antenna and, when collocated on or adjacent to a
structure, is mounted or installed at approximately the same time as such
antenna.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter, including but not
limited to any person or entity submitting an application to install small
wireless facilities or structures to support the facilities within a Village
right-of-way or within any other right-of-way within the Village.
APPLICATION: A written submission to the Village requesting authorization for
the deployment of a facility at a specified location.
AUTHORIZATION: Any approval that the Village must issue under applicable law
prior to the deployment of a facility, including, but not limited to, any
required zoning approvals and one or more building permits at a specified
location.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non- recoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Village of Lake Barrington Village Code, as amended from time to
time.
COLLOCATE: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless
facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or on or adjacent to
a utility pole.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of- way lines of a
right-of-way.
DEPLOYMENT: Deployment means placement, construction, and/or modification of a
facility.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The Village President, or the Village officer, employee
or agent(s) designated by the Village President to administer, enforce, and/or
interpret the provisions of this chapter.
ENGINEER: An engineer employed by or engaged by the Village, as designated by
the Village President, or his or her designee, to assist and consult with the
enforcement official.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used as
part of or in order to facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FCC ORDER OF SEPTEMBER 26, 2018: FCC Order dated September 26, 2018 in FCC WT
Docket no. 17-79 and WC Docket no. 17-84.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or safety
of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment,
including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or
petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables,
corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any
Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and Video
Competition Law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation of plantings, shrubbery, bushes and other
foliage at grade which is intended to screen a facility or the base of a
facility from public view.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of- way.
OTHER RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY: Any public right(s)-of-way other than a Village right-
of-way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: An entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PRIVATE LINE: A dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer
that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications
channel, or a group of those channels, from one or more specified locations to
one or more other specified locations.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above any street,
alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, in which a public entity has the
right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities
of entities other than its own. Such phrase shall not include any real or
personal Village property that is not specifically described in the previous
sentence or buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, including
but not limited to Municipal aerial lines, regardless of whether they are
situated in the right-of-way. (Sometimes referred to as "right- of-way" or
"rights-of-way".)
PUBLIC SAFETY USE: Communication facilities utilized by a functional division
of the Federal government or of the State, a unit of local government, or a
special purpose district located in whole or in part within this State, that
provides or has authority to provide firefighting, police, ambulance, medical,
or other emergency services to respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SMTCT: Simplified Municipal Telecommunication Tax Act, that being 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 636/5-1, et seq.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
6-9-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY OR FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications
facility consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly
or as part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited
defined area which generally will be a single-service provider installation.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY SYSTEM (Also Known As A DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM
(DAS)): A type of personal wireless telecommunication facility consisting of a
network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected to a common source via a
transport medium that provides wireless service within a geographic area and
often, but not always, will serve multiple carriers.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
STRUCTURE: A pole, tower, base station, or other building, whether or not it
has an existing antenna facility, that is used or to be used for the provision
of personal wireless service (whether on its own or commingled with other types
of services). Also referred to in this chapter as a "wireless support
structure".
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: A. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two- way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities.
   B.   "Telecommunications" shall not include value- added services in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
   C.   "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who
originates or terminates the end to end communications.
   D.   "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services
through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47
USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an alternative
antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the requirements for a tower and associated antenna
facilities shall be those requirements contained in section
8-3-7 of this Code.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or any similar function.
UTILITY POLE, EXISTING: Any utility pole installed on or before June 1, 2018.
UTILITY POLE, NEW: Any utility pole installed after June 1, 2018.
UTILITY POLE, VILLAGE: A utility pole owned or controlled by the Village
located on and/or within a public Village right-of-way, or on or within any
other public right-of-way.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief from specific provisions of this Code
and/or of title 8, "Zoning", of this Code, by an ordinance approved by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village. Also sometimes referred to as a "waiver"
or "exception".
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The Village of Lake Barrington Village Engineer, or his or
her designee.
VILLAGE FACILITIES: Any road(s), alley(s), paved surface(s), traffic control
device(s), water service(s), sanitary sewer service(s), stormwater service(s),
and their appurtenances in Village rights-of-way, or a utility pole owned or
controlled by the Village.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure located within a Village right-of-
way or within any other right-of-way within the corporate limits of the
Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic signals, towers,
utility pole(s), or structures, including the surface of the Village right-of-
way owned, operated, controlled, or maintained by the Village.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: All property owned by and/or under the maintenance
jurisdiction of the Village.
VILLAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or
waterway, dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
other similar purposes, including Village utility easements, in which the
Village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the Village. "Right-of-way" or
"rights-of-way" shall not include any real or personal Village property that is
not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not include
Village buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether or not they are situated in a Village right-of-way.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities, including a portion or portion(s) of a public right-of-way not
intended for vehicular use, but not including a utility pole.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE, VILLAGE: A wireless support structure owned or
controlled by the Village.
ZONING ORDINANCE (Also, ZONING REGULATIONS): Title 8, "Zoning", of this Code
(the Village of Lake Barrington zoning ordinance), as amended from time to
time. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the enforcement official, providing the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection
with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of- way and a
twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in section
6-9-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2007-O-
23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility in, on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, within, or
through any Village right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the
facility, 2) adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in
this chapter), or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied
by the facility in, on, over, above, along, under, across, within, or through
the right-of-way, without first filing an application with the enforcement
official and obtaining a permit from the Village therefor, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and
maintenance of service connections to customers' premises where there will be
no disruption of the right-of-way. (Ord. 2018-O-12, 6-6-2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
6-9-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section
6-9-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
6-9-22 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, or by the Illinois Simplified Telecommunications Tax Act 1 ,
or by section
6-9-21, "Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities", of this chapter, all
applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee
as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-O-12, 6-6-2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1, et seq.
6-9-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the enforcement
official within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the enforcement official shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the enforcement official is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the enforcement official shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
enforcement official, that the construction proposed under the application
shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The enforcement
official shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility
may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the enforcement official fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
6-9-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
Village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a State issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the Village, unless otherwise acted upon by the Village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable Village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on Village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the Village with such Village
representatives in attendance as the Village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
6-9-22 of this chapter. If the Village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the enforcement official of said notice,
and in no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the
utility shall obtain and furnish to the enforcement official evidence of
replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
(Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish and deposit with the Village a
security in the form of a surety bond or an unconditional letter of credit,
which security shall be continuously maintained in accordance with this Section
by the permittee until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security shall guarantee:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this Chapter;
      2.   The payment to the Village of all expenditures, damages, or losses
incurred by the Village occasioned by the permittee's failure to comply with
any codes, rules, regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the
Village issued pursuant to this Chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this Chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this Chapter to perform that the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this Chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security to the Village in the
form of a surety bond in a form acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional
letter of credit in a form acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter
of credit provided pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the Village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the enforcement official, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the enforcement
official may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post
a security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under
the permit. The amount of the security for phased construction shall be equal
to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of
this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   The surety bond or unconditional letter of credit shall serve as
security if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any other provision of this Chapter.
   E.   Release of Security: Upon completion of the work authorized under the
permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the release of the surety bond or
letter of credit within a reasonable time after payment(s) have been made to
the Village as are necessary to compensate the Village for failure by the
permittee to comply with any provisions of this Chapter or other applicable
law.
   F.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the security are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this Chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security shall affect any
other right the Village may have.
(Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-2024)
6-9-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2007-O-23,
11-6-2007)
6-9-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the enforcement official shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the enforcement official shall state which standard or principle
will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
6-9-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the enforcement official determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way, or other public place.
      2.   All freestanding facilities located within a right of way shall be
located underground to the greatest extent possible, as determined by the
enforcement official, or his or her designee, and to the extent that the
enforcement official, or his or her designee determines that it is not
technically possible to install any such facilities underground, such
facilities shall be substantially screened from view by landscaping pursuant to
a landscaping plan which shall be approved in advance by the enforcement
official, or his or her designee.
      3.   All freestanding facilities within any right of way shall be so
located so as to cause only the minimum possible interference with the use of
such right of way and so as to cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin said right of way. No freestanding facilities shall be placed within any
right of way in such a manner to interfere with the usual travel on such right
of way, nor shall such facilities limit the visibility of vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic within such right of way.
      4.   The owner of any freestanding facility shall, at its expense,
promptly comply with the reasonable requests of the enforcement official, or
his or her designee, with respect to the location and screening of such
facilities within any right of way, including, but not limited to, with respect
to any future relocation of such facilities.
      5.   If and when facilities are permitted to be installed overhead
pursuant to the foregoing regulations, such overhead facilities shall only
utilize existing poles.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground:
      1.   Aboveground facilities may be installed only if:
         a.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
         b.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
         c.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, existing self-
supporting armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of
conductors and cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used
wherever practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
      2.   Where aboveground facilities are permitted in any right of way, such
facilities shall be so located so as to cause only the minimum possible
interference with the use of such right of way and so as to cause only the
minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of way. When permitted, no
aboveground facilities shall be placed in any right of way in such a manner to
interfere with the usual travel on such right of way, nor shall such facilities
limit the visibility of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic within such right
of way.
      3.   The owner of any facilities shall, at its expense, promptly comply
with the reasonable requests of the enforcement official, or his or her
designee, with respect to the location and, if aboveground, the screening of
such facilities within any right of way, including, but not limited to, with
respect to any future relocation of such facilities.
      4.   Where aboveground facilities are permitted in any right of way, the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner for the particular application shall
be used.
      5.   If and when facilities are permitted to be installed overhead
pursuant to the foregoing regulations, such overhead facilities shall only
utilize existing poles.
      6.   For purposes of this chapter, a facility shall be considered
"underground" if its highest elevation is at or below the ground level, and a
facility shall be considered "overhead" if it is attached above the ground to a
utility pole.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2007-
O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
enforcement official from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the enforcement official.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the enforcement official, the utility, at its expense, shall remove
any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place
and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk,
curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Enforcement
Official.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
6-9-22 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Enforcement Official.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one (1) piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by
the Village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                          Minimum Cover
Electric lines                            30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service     18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                      determined by Village)
Gas or petroleum products                 30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                           protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage  Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled
"Rules for Construction of Electric Power and Communications Lines", and the
National Electrical Safety Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the enforcement official. With the approval of the
enforcement official, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in
place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the enforcement official.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the enforcement official when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
shall be those otherwise set forth in this code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2007-
O-23, 11-6-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
6-9-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the enforcement official that such spraying is the only practicable method
of vegetation control. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the enforcement
official determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the enforcement official. Such cleanup and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
enforcement official for good cause shown. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
enforcement official or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the Village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of- way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007)
6-9-21: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
6-9-21-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act: This section is adopted
pursuant to Public Act 100-0585, the "Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act"
("the Act"), pursuant to which the Village regulates and charges for small
wireless facilities as and to the extent permitted by the Act, and pursuant to
the FCC Order of September 26, 2018.
   B.   Savings Clause: To the extent permitted by any decisions of a court of
competent jurisdiction, any provisions of the Act and/or of the FCC Order of
September 26, 2018, and any corresponding provisions of this section
6-9-21, which are exclusively dependent upon such provisions of the Act and/or
of the FCC Order of September 26, 2018 for authority, shall be and are
automatically suspended, pending final decision on any such issue upon
appellate review.
   C.   Purpose: The purpose of this section
6-9-21 is to establish regulations, and procedures for the siting and
collocation of small wireless facilities on public rights-of-way within the
Village, or outside public rights-of-way on private property zoned by the
Village exclusively for commercial or industrial use, in a manner that is
consistent with the Act and/or the FCC Order of September 26, 2018.
   D.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations are inconsistent with the requirements of
this section
6-9-21, the wireless services provider shall comply with the more restrictive
requirements. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms used in this section
6-9-21 have the meaning provided in section
6-9-2, "Definitions", of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-
2018)
6-9-21-3: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Use: A small wireless facility shall be classified as a
permitted use and subject to administrative review, but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-way in any zone, or
2) outside of rights-of-way on property zoned exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, and 3) if such wireless facility meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
three (3) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna, excluding associated antenna equipment as defined in
this chapter, could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more than three (3)
cubic feet in volume; and b) all other wireless equipment attached directly to
or installed adjacent to a utility pole, or other support structure, including
pre-existing equipment, associated with the facility is, in the aggregate, no
more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet in volume.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant is required to obtain one or more permits
to collocate a small wireless facility. An application is received and
processed, and permits are issued subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Public Safety Use Space Reservation: The Village does hereby reserve
space on all Village utility poles and Village wireless support structures for
future public safety uses, and funds shall be and are hereby tentatively
appropriated or budgeted for such purposes, but a reservation of space will not
preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village
reasonably determines that the Village utility pole or Village wireless support
structure cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Application Requirements: A wireless services provider shall be
required to provide the following information to the enforcement official when
seeking a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a
Village utility pole or on or adjacent to a Village wireless support structure,
or any public right-of-way within the Village:
         a.   Site-specific structural integrity for such Village utility pole
and/or for other Village wireless support structure, and a make-ready analysis
prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is defined in section 4 of the
Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with subsection B4,
"Other Requirements", of this section to the best of the applicant's knowledge;
and
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide to the enforcement official legally competent
evidence of the consent of the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      3.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
within the Village shall be limited as follows:
         a.   Each small wireless facility shall be mounted on structures fifty
feet (50') or less in height, including their antennas.
         b.   Each small wireless facility shall be mounted on structures no
more than ten percent (10%) taller than other adjacent structures; or
         c.   Each small wireless facility shall not extend existing structures
on which they are located to a height of more than fifty feet (50') or by more
than ten percent (10%), whichever is greater.
      4.   Other Requirements:
         a.   A wireless services provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications as determined by the enforcement
official.
Wireless services providers shall not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference shall be determined by the enforcement official and
measured in accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations
addressing unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other
spectrum licensed by a public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
services provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, or by the enforcement official, the wireless services
provider, at its own expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary, as
determined by the enforcement official, to correct and eliminate the
interference, including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless
facility and later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent
testing, if necessary.
The enforcement official may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
if such small wireless facility causes interference and if the wireless
services provider is not making a good faith effort to remedy the problem in a
manner consistent with the abatement and resolution procedures for interference
with public safety spectrum established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970
through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675, and/or other
applicable FCC standards, or if after such good faith efforts, the enforcement
official concludes that such interference cannot be resolved. Failure to remedy
the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
         b.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with requirements
that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a private property owner
that concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
         c.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with all applicable
spacing requirements in this Code concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the Village rights-of-way, if any.
         d.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with the provisions
of this Code concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval, but an applicant may apply to the enforcement
official for one or more exceptions to such undergrounding requirements, and,
in any event, the installation of replacement poles is not prohibited.
         e.   A wireless services provider shall comply with this section and
such other applicable provisions of this Code adopted by the Village from time
to time for construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but
not limited to, wiring and cabling requirements, grounding requirements,
utility pole extension requirements, and signage limitations, and the
requirements of this chapter regulating the location, size, and height of small
wireless facilities, related to the abandonment and removal of small wireless
facilities.
         f.   A wireless services provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on or adjacent to Village utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless services
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subsection B4f, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
         g.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with all generally
applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to those that
relate to public safety, except to the extent expressly preempted in this
chapter.
         h.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with written design
standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements which may be
adopted by the Corporate Authorities of this Village from time to time as an
appendix to this section, chapter, and title, which may include restrictions
relative to design and/or concealment measures in a historic district or
historic landmark, but such design and/or concealment measures shall not have
the effect of prohibiting any of a wireless services provider's technology and
shall not be considered part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the
determining height and/or volume restrictions on a small wireless facility.
Exceptions and/or waivers: The Corporate Authorities of the Village, after
receiving a specific recommendation from the enforcement official, may by
ordinance grant an exception and/or waiver from the requirements of this
section and/or of this chapter, which shall be based upon good cause shown by
an applicant which shall include unique circumstances or undue hardship in the
application of this section and/or of this chapter in a specific case or cases,
and subject to the other provisions of this Code, and subject to the other
applicable ordinances of the Village. Such waiver(s) and/or exception(s) are
not prohibited by this chapter.
            (1)   To be considered a small wireless facility, such facility
shall not require antenna structure registration under 47 USC part 17.
            (2)   A small wireless facility shall not result in human exposure
to radio frequency radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards
specified in section 47 USC 1.1307(b).
      5.   Completeness Of Application: Within ten (10) days after receiving an
application, the Village's enforcement official will determine whether the
application is complete and notify the applicant. If an application is
incomplete, the enforcement official will provide a notice of deficiency to the
applicant specifically identifying the missing information. An application will
be deemed complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the
applicant within ten (10) days after when all documents, information, and fees
specifically enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted
by the applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines will be tolled from the time the Village sends the notice
of deficiency until the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      6.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on or
adjacent to an existing utility pole or on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure will be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis. The first fully-
completed application received by the enforcement official shall have priority
over incomplete applications received from other applicants for collocation on
the same utility pole or wireless support structure. Such a fully-completed
application will be deemed approved if the enforcement official fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days of the enforcement
official's receipt of such application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the enforcement official in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
seventy five (75) days after the submission to the enforcement official of a
fully completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission to the enforcement official of the complete application or the 10th
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the enforcement
official. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
enforcement official's denial of the permit request within the specific
approval time limits as provided above in this section.
         b.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole will be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved only if the enforcement official
fails to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the enforcement official in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit will be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the enforcement official. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude such enforcement official's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this section.
         c.   The enforcement official will approve an application unless the
application does not meet the requirements of this section.
If the enforcement official determines that applicable provisions of this Code
which relate to the public safety, or the provisions of this section require
that a utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before the
requested collocation, approval may be conditioned upon the replacement of the
utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of the applicant.
The enforcement official will document the basis for a denial, including the
specific provisions of this Code or application conditions on which the denial
was based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
enforcement official denies an application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the enforcement official
and resubmit the revised application to the enforcement official once within
thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying
an additional application fee. The enforcement official will approve or deny
the revised application within thirty (30) days after the applicant resubmits
the application or it is deemed approved.
However, the applicant will notify the enforcement official in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the resubmitted application.
Any subsequent review will be limited to the deficiencies cited by the
enforcement official in the denial. However, this revised application cure does
not apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
      7.   Tolling: The "deemed approved" time period for applications may be
further tolled by:
         a.   The express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the
enforcement official; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes a delay in approval by the Village.
      8.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate two (2)
or more small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village may
file with the Village a consolidated application for the proposed facilities,
and upon review and approval of said application by the enforcement official,
the Village will issue a single permit therefor upon the applicant's payment to
the Village of all required fee(s) therefor as specified from time to time in
section
6-9-21-4 of this section
6-9-21.
If an application for collocation of multiple small wireless facilities is
denied in part by the enforcement official and/or the application is determined
to be incomplete in any way, the enforcement official may remove from the
application any small wireless facility collocations which are denied and/or
for which incomplete information has been provided and treat separately any
remaining requests for small wireless facility collocations. In such event, the
enforcement official may require separate applications and separate application
fees for each collocation that is reviewed and/or approved separately from a
consolidated application.
      9.   Timely Village Review Of Applications:
         a.   Timely Review Required: If the enforcement official fails to act
on an application on or before the "shot clock" date for the application, as
defined in subsection B9e of this section, it will be presumed that the Village
did not act within a reasonable period of time.
         b.   Shot Clock Period: The shot clock period for an application is
the sum of:
            (1)   The maximum number of days allowed for the review ("maximum
reasonable review period") for the specific type of application, pursuant to
subsection B9c of this section, plus
            (2)   The number of days of the tolling period, if any, pursuant to
subsection B9d of this section.
         c.   Maximum Reasonable Review Periods For Specific Types Of
Application:
            (1)   Review: Applications seeking permits and other authorization
for deployments of facilities in the categories set forth below:
               (A)   Review of an application to collocate a small wireless
facility on or adjacent to an existing structure: A sixty (60) day review
period shall be considered a reasonable review period.
               (B)   Review of an application to collocate a facility other
than a small wireless facility on or adjacent to an existing structure: A
ninety (90) day review period shall be considered a reasonable review period.
               (C)   Review of an application to deploy a small wireless
facility using a new structure: A ninety (90) day review period shall be
considered a reasonable review period.
               (D)   Review of an application to deploy a facility other than a
small wireless facility using a new structure: A one hundred fifty (150) day
review period shall be considered a reasonable review period.
            (2)   Batching:
               (A)   If a single application seeks authorization for multiple
deployments, all of which fall within a category set forth in either subsection
B9c(1)(A) or B9c(1)(C) of this section, then the maximum reasonable review
period for the application as a whole shall be equal to that for a single
deployment within that category.
               (B)   If a single application seeks authorization for multiple
deployments, the components of which are a mix of deployments that fall within
subsection B9c(1)(A) of this section and deployments that fall within
subsection B9c(1)(C) of this section, then the reasonable review period for the
application as a whole shall be ninety (90) days.
               (C)   The Village will accept applications for multiple
deployments under subsection B9c(2)(A) of this section or under subsection B9c
(2)(B) of this section.
         d.   Tolling Period For Determining Maximum Reasonable Review Period:
Unless a written agreement between the applicant and the enforcement official
provides otherwise, the tolling period for determining the maximum reasonable
review period of an application for deployment (if any) is as set forth below:
            (1)   For an initial application to deploy small wireless
facilities, if the enforcement official notifies the applicant on or before the
10th day after submission that the application is materially incomplete, and
clearly and specifically identifies the missing documents or information (a
"notice of deficiency") and the specific rule or regulation creating the
obligation to submit such documents or information, the shot clock date
calculation shall restart at zero (0) on the date on which the applicant
submits all the documents and information identified by the Village in the
notice of deficiency to render the application complete.
            (2)   For all other initial applications, the tolling period shall
be the number of days from:
               (A)   The day after the date when the enforcement official
notifies the applicant in writing that the application is materially incomplete
and clearly and specifically identifies the missing documents or information
that the applicant must submit to render the application complete and the
specific rule or regulation creating this obligation (a "notice of
deficiency"), until
               (B)   The date when the applicant submits all the documents and
information identified by the enforcement official in the notice of deficiency
to render the application complete,
               (C)   But only if the notice of deficiency pursuant to
subsection B9d(2)(A) of this section is effectuated on or before the 30th day
after the date when the application was submitted; or
            (3)   For resubmitted applications following a notice of
deficiency, the tolling period shall be the number of days from:
               (A)   The day after the date when the enforcement official
notifies the applicant in writing that the applicant's supplemental submission
was not sufficient to render the application complete and clearly and
specifically identifies the missing documents or information that need to be
submitted based on the enforcement official's initial notice of deficiency
(i.e., original request under subsection B9d(1) or B9d(2) of this section),
until
               (B)   The date when the applicant submits all the documents and
information identified by the enforcement official in the initial notice of
deficiency to render the application complete,
               (C)   But only if the notice of deficiency pursuant to
subsection B9d(3)(A) of this section is effectuated on or before the 10th day
after the date when the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response
to the enforcement official's initial notice of deficiency (i.e., the
enforcement official's request under subsection B9d(1) or B9d(2) of this
section).
         e.   Shot Clock Date: The shot clock date for an application is
determined by counting forward, beginning on the day after the date when the
application was submitted, by the number of calendar days of the shot clock
period identified pursuant to subsection B9b of this section and including any
pre-application period identified by the enforcement official, provided that if
the date calculated in this manner is a Saturday or a Sunday, or a legal
holiday, the shot clock date is the next business day after such date.
The enforcement official will use a reasonable effort to approve or deny an
application within the shot clock period.
      10.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted by the enforcement official shall be completed within one hundred
eighty (180) days after issuance of the permit therefor, unless the enforcement
official agrees to extend this period for good cause shown or a delay is caused
by events including but not limited to make-ready work for a Village utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless services provider has made a timely request within sixty
(60) days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul
services, and the additional time to complete installation does not exceed a
total of three hundred sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit by the
enforcement official. Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the
enforcement official grants an extension in writing to the applicant for good
cause shown.
      11.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit issued by the
enforcement official shall be for a period of not less than five (5) years, and
the permit will be renewed for equivalent durations unless the Village makes a
finding that the small wireless facilities provider has failed to comply with
any of the applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to the
payment of any fee(s) and/or the required "annual recurring rate", and/or the
small wireless facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply
with the applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to the
provisions of this chapter, but otherwise collocation of small wireless
facilities and/or renewals of permits shall remain subject to the applicable
provisions of this Code, as amended from time to time, and/or in effect at the
time of renewal.
      12.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices by personal delivery to the
enforcement official, or as otherwise required by the Village.
The enforcement official may require that applications for permits, supporting
information, and notices be submitted by personal delivery to the enforcement
official at the Village Hall, by regular mail postmarked on the date due, or by
any other commonly used means, including electronic mail, or overnight carrier.
      13.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after the
Village has approved a permit to collocate a small wireless facility on or
adjacent to a Village utility pole, and prior to an applicant commencing
installation of any small wireless facilities on or adjacent to any Village
utility pole, the Village and the applicant may enter into a Master Pole
Attachment Agreement provided by the Village for the initial collocation on a
Village utility pole by the applicant. For subsequent approved permits to
collocate on a small wireless facility on a Village utility pole, the Village
and the applicant may enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole
Attachment Agreement. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-4: APPLICATION FEES:
Applicants shall be required to pay the following application fees to the
Village at the time of the filing of the application with the enforcement
official:
   A.   An application fee as provided from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code for an application to collocate up to five (5) separate
small wireless facilities on or adjacent to an existing utility pole or on or
adjacent to a wireless support structure within any public right-of-way or on
or adjacent to any Village utility pole or on or adjacent to any Village
wireless support structure;
   B.   An application fee as provided from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code for each small wireless facility addressed in an
application to collocate more than five (5) separate small wireless facilities
on or adjacent to existing utility poles or on or adjacent to a wireless
support structure within any public right-of-way or on or adjacent to any
Village utility pole within the Village or on or adjacent to any Village
wireless support structure.
   C.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or this Code,
applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the required
application fee(s).
   D.   The Village will not require an application, approval, or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider and/
or any wireless services provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless services
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of this section; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
   E.   The Village may require separate permits(s) or approval(s) to work
within public rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or
require lane closures. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-5: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
Nothing in this section or in the Act and/or in the FCC Order of September 26,
2018 authorizes a person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
   A.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   B.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, except for
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   C.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this section do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this section. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-6: EXISTING AGREEMENTS GRANDFATHERED FOR EXISTING LOCATIONS, IF ANY:
Agreements between the Village and wireless services providers that relate to
the collocation of small wireless facilities in a right-of-way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility poles and/or on any
other Village wireless support structure(s), that are in effect on June 1,
2018, if any, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated on
the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to and approved
by the Village before June 1, 2018, if any, subject to applicable termination
provisions of such agreements. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-7: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
   A.   For each small wireless facility located on or adjacent to a Village
utility pole or on or adjacent to a Village wireless support structure located
in a right-of-way the respective small wireless facility provider shall be
required to pay to the Village on or before January 1 of each year, for each
respective fiscal year, an "annual recurring rate" in the amount and at such
time as provided from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code for each such small wireless facility located within the
Village.
   B.   Collocation on Village utility poles located outside of a public right-
of-way shall not be permitted. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-8: AERIAL FACILITIES:
For Village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or other utility service(s), wireless services
providers shall comply with the process for make-ready work under 47 USC 224
and its implementing regulations. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-9: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such
facility is and shall be required to promptly remove the small wireless
facility within ninety (90) days after receipt of written notice from the
Village notifying the owner of the abandonment.
The notice will be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the owner
of the respective small wireless facility. If the small wireless facility is
not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or
cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for Village utility poles or through whatever actions are provided
for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery,
including but not limited to removal of such small wireless facility(ies) at
the sole cost and expense of the respective owner, which shall become a debt
owed by such owner to the Village.
A wireless services provider shall be required to provide written notice to the
Village if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village. Such notice shall include the name,
address, and contact information of the new wireless services provider. (Ord.
2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-21-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless services provider shall indemnify and hold the Village, its elected
and appointed officials, officers, employees, and agents ("indemnitees")
harmless from and against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of any Village improvements or Village right-of- way associated
with such improvements by the wireless services provider or its employees,
agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and privileges granted under
this section, PA 100-0585, and/or pursuant to FCC Order of September 26, 2018
provided, however, a wireless services provider has no obligation to indemnify
or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused
by the sole negligence of the Village or the other indemnitees. A wireless
services provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against the
Village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however
caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-
14-2018)
6-9-21-11: INSURANCE:
Each wireless services provider making application to the Village for a permit
for the collocation of a small wireless facility shall carry, at the wireless
services provider's own cost and expense, the following insurance: a) property
insurance for its property's replacement cost against all risks; b) workers'
compensation insurance, as required by Illinois law; and c) commercial general
liability insurance with respect to its activities on any Village improvements
or Village rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits consistent with
the Village's requirements of other users of Village improvements or rights-of-
way, as set forth in section
6-9-8 of this chapter.
A wireless services provider shall be required to include the Village and its
officers, employees, and agents (the "indemnities") as additional insureds on
the commercial general liability policy and provide a certificate of insurance
evidencing inclusion of such commercial general liability coverage. All such
insurance coverage shall be required to be in full force and effect during the
entire term of any collocation agreement with the Village. If there is a
potential loss of coverage, the small wireless services provider shall give
notice thereof to the enforcement official not less than thirty (30) days prior
to any such loss of coverage. (Ord. 2018-O-26, 12-4-2018, eff. 12-14-2018)
6-9-22: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the enforcement
official as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons
why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The enforcement official shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The enforcement official may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the enforcement official may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the
enforcement official under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right
to appeal to the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The Village
Board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007; amd. Ord.
2017-O-12, 5-2-2017)
6-9-23: PENALTIES:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, any
violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
per offense, and each day a violation has existed or continues to exist shall
be a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when
the Village will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims,
because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and
this chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
Village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-
2007; amd. Ord. 2017-O-12, 5-2-2017)
6-9-24: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-O-23, 11-6-2007; amd. Ord. 2017-O-12, 5-2-2017)
CHAPTER 7
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE
SECTION:
6-7C-1: Telecommunications License
6-7C-2: License Application
6-7C-3: Determination By The Village
6-7C-4: Agreement
6-7C-5: Nonexclusive Grant
6-7C-6: Rights Granted
6-7C-7: Term Of Grant
6-7C-8: License Route
6-7C-9: Location Of Facilities
6-7C-10: Construction Permits
6-7C-11: Compensation To Village
6-7C-12: Service To Village Users
6-7C-13: Amendment Of Grant
6-7C-14: Renewal Applications
6-7C-15: Renewal Determinations
6-7C-16: Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal
6-7C-1: TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE:
A telecommunications license shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy specific public ways of the Village for the sole
purpose of providing telecommunications services to persons or areas outside
the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Any person that desires a telecommunications license pursuant to this Article C
shall file an application with the Village on a form which shall be provided by
the Village Administrator which shall include the following information:
   A.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of the
applicant.
   B.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
   C.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
   D.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of the
facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
      2.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
      3.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
      4.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
   E.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence that
surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities on
existing utility poles along the proposed route.
   F.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing ducts
or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities;
      2.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   G.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new ducts
or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
      2.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits after
installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   H.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
   I.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the IDOT Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   J.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
   K.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's technical
qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the telecommunications
facilities and services described in the application.
   L.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
   M.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Article F of this
Chapter.
   N.   Such other and further information as may be required by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-3: DETERMINATION BY THE VILLAGE:
Within one hundred twenty (120) days after receiving a complete application
under Section
6-7C-2 of this Article, the corporate authorities shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part, applying
the following standards. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's proposed
facilities.
   D.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility and
telecommunications facilities if the license is granted.
   E.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted.
   F.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
   G.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
   H.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the license
is granted.
   I.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities.
   J.   Applicable Federal and State telecommunications laws, regulations and
policies.
   K.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the public
ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-4: AGREEMENT:
No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the applicant and the
Village have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms
and provisions under which the license to occupy and use public ways of the
Village will be granted. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-5: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
No license granted under this Article shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the Village
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-6: RIGHTS GRANTED:
No license granted under this Article shall convey any right, title or interest
in the public ways, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the
public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant. Further, no
license shall be construed as any warranty of title or shall authorize or
excuse a licensee from securing such further easements, leases, permits or
other approvals as may be required to lawfully occupy and use excess capacity
in an underground facility or surplus space in an overhead facility. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-7: TERM OF GRANT:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, a telecommunications license
granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of five (5) years. (Ord. 97-O-
10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-8: LICENSE ROUTE:
A telecommunications license granted under this Article shall be limited to a
grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-
1997)
6-7C-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
   B.   A licensee with permission to install overhead facilities shall install
its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles
only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the Village
Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption
of the public ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future telecommunications carriers. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-10: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
All licensees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in Article 7 of this Chapter
provided, however, that nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Village and
a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction
procedures in a license agreement, provided such alternative procedures provide
substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction practices.
(Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-11: COMPENSATION TO VILLAGE:
Each license granted under this Article is subject to the Village's right,
which is expressly reserved, to annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation
to be paid for the property rights granted to the licensee; provided, nothing
in this Article shall prohibit the Village and a licensee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-12: SERVICE TO VILLAGE USERS:
A licensee may be permitted to offer or provide telecommunications services to
persons or areas within the Village upon submitting an application for approval
pursuant to Article D of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-13: AMENDMENT OF GRANT:
   A.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways of the Village which are not
included in a license previously granted hereunder.
   B.   If ordered by the Village to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted license, the
Village shall grant a license amendment without further application. (Ord. 97-
O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-14: RENEWAL APPLICATIONS:
A grantee that desires to renew its license under this Article shall, not more
than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than ninety (90) days before
expiration of the current license, file an application with the Village for
renewal of its license which shall include the following information:
   A.   The information required pursuant to Section
6-7C-2 of this Article.
   B.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement between the
Village and the grantee. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-15: RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS:
Within ninety (90) days after receiving a complete application under Section
6-7C-14 of this Article, the corporate authorities shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part,
applying the following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
   D.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the license agreement.
   E.   Applicable Federal, State and local telecommunications laws, rules and
policies.
   F.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use
the public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
6-7C-16: OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL:
No license shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the
licensee's performance of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this
Chapter, have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken
by the grantee has been approved by the Village. (Ord. 97-O-10, 5-6-1997)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Title
7-1-2: Scope Of Application
7-1-3: Enforcement Of Provisions
7-1-4: Building Commissioner And Deputy Building Commissioner
7-1-5: Interpretation
7-1-6: Rules Adopted By Reference; Interpretation
7-1-7: Load And Capacity Placards Required
7-1-8: Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures
7-1-9: Hazardous Buildings Or Construction Conditions
7-1-10: Variations
7-1-11: Contractor's License Required
7-1-12: Violation And Penalty
7-1-1: TITLE:
This title, including the rules and regulations it adopts by reference, is
hereby entitled the BUILDING CODE OF THE VILLAGE. The letter and number
designations used to set off or identify its various parts refer to chapters,
sections, subsections, paragraphs, rules, regulations or other divisions as the
text or arrangement may indicate. Reference to any one of these parts may be by
such a designation alone. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-2: SCOPE OF APPLICATION:
   A.   No building, structure or parts or appurtenances thereof, such as water
supply, sewage disposal, plumbing installation and electrical installation,
located in the village shall be erected, installed, altered, converted,
remodeled, structurally repaired, moved, demolished or changed except in
conformity with the regulations and requirements established in this title and
all other provisions of this code relating to building or zoning 1 .
   B.   All buildings and structures and parts and appurtenances thereof, both
existing and hereafter erected or installed, shall be so maintained that the
occupants and users thereof and others are reasonably safe from the hazards of
fire, explosion, collapse, contagion and spread of infectious disease. If found
by the building commissioner, not so maintained, the building commissioner may
order necessary corrective work, repair, replacement or removal.
   C.   These rules and regulations set forth requirements, which are
considered reasonable and are held in every instance to be the minimum for the
promotion of public health, safety and the general welfare.
   D.   The requirements of this title apply to the administration and
enforcement of this title, other pertinent provisions of this code and laws
applicable to any regulated building, structure, part or appurtenance thereof.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code for zoning regulations.
7-1-3: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
The building commissioner shall make or cause to be made such inspections as
are necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this title, and to
make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used for the
purpose of seeing that they comply with the provisions of this title and the
building commissioner shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this
title and initiate prosecution of any violation of same. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-
2011)
7-1-4: BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND DEPUTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Building Commissioner:
      1.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office and
position of building commissioner (sometimes referred to in this Title as the
"Building Official"), who shall be appointed by the village president with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees. Such office and position may be
filled by a person employed for that purpose by the village or by a person or
firm engaged as an independent contractor by the village for that purpose. The
building commissioner may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and
whether or not his/her or its current term of office has expired, by the
village president, with the concurrence of the board of trustees. The term
"building commissioner" as used in this code shall refer to and mean any
individual person duly appointed to that position by the village president with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees, as well as the respective
designee of such person pursuant to Paragraph C below, or to any person or firm
engaged as an independent contractor and any and all persons employed by any
such firm for that purpose.
      2.   Compensation: Any such commissioner shall receive such compensation,
if any, as an employee of or as an independent contractor with the village as
may be fixed by the board of trustees from time to time consistent with the
then current annual appropriation ordinance of the village.
      3.   Enforce Building And Zoning Regulations: It shall be the duty of the
building commissioner to see to the enforcement of all the provisions of this
title and all other provisions of this code relating to building or zoning and
to inspect all buildings and structures and parts and appurtenances thereof
regulated by this title being erected, installed or altered as frequently as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with this code. The building commissioner
shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this title and initiate
prosecution of any violation of same.
      4.   Violation, Stop Work Order: The building commissioner shall have the
power to order all work stopped on construction, installation, alteration or
repair of buildings and structures, and parts and appurtenances thereof
regulated by this title in the village when such work is being done in
violation of any provision of this code relating thereto, or in violation of
the zoning ordinance 1 . Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such
an order except on the written permission of the commissioner; provided, that
if the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order
within seventy two (72) hours. Such written stop order may be served by any
policeman or the village administrator.
Any person who shall continue work in violation of a stop order of the building
commissioner shall be fined as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day on which any work in violation of such stop
order is done.
      5.   Right Of Entry: The building commissioner shall have the power to
make or cause to be made an entry into any building or premises where the work
of altering, installing, repairing or constructing any building and structure
and parts and appurtenances thereof regulated by this title is going on for the
purpose of making inspections at any reasonable hour.
      6.   Other Duties: Duties and authority of the building commissioner
shall include the administration of this code and other applicable ordinances
and state laws, together with the following:
         a.   Keep careful, systematic records of the business and work of
office, including applications, survey plats and building plot plans, all
construction plans and specifications, copies of permits and certificates
issued, affidavits and certificates received, a record of inspections, copies
of notices and orders issued, reports of tests made. Plans and specifications
of houses and accessories, except survey plats and building plot plans, may be
destroyed after two (2) years. Those parts of plans for other buildings which
may be useful for future periodic inspections shall be kept.
         b.   Make inspections and for that purpose may enter buildings,
structures and premises.
         c.   Stop by written order work being done contrary to the building
permit or this title.
         d.   Revoke, by writing, a permit or approval issued contrary to this
title or based upon a false statement or misrepresentation in the application.
   B.   Deputy Building Commissioner:
      1.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
deputy building commissioner, who shall be appointed by the village president,
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. Any such deputy building
commissioner shall serve at the pleasure of the village president and may be
terminated, with or without cause, by the village president, with the
concurrence of the board of trustees.
      2.   Compensation: Any such deputy building commissioner shall receive
such compensation, if any, as an employee of or as an independent contractor
with the village as may be fixed by the village president from time to time
consistent with the then current annual appropriation ordinance of the village.
      3.   Powers And Duties: Any such deputy shall have the same powers and
duties as the building commissioner but shall be subject to the direction,
supervision and control of the building commissioner when the building
commissioner is available and able to do so.
   C.   Authority of Designee(s): Any reference in this Title to the authority
of the Village Commissioner to grant or deny an approval or provide specific
direction shall, whether or not so specified, include the authority for such
decision to be made by a designee of the Building Officer.
   D.   Village Administrator May Act: Whenever the person so appointed or the
firm so engaged to serve as Building Commissioner is unavailable or temporarily
absent from the Village, or if the position of Building Commissioner is vacant
at the time, the Village Administrator is authorized to and may serve as the
Building Commissioner, and for such purpose during such a time shall hold all
of the authority of that office. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-
05, 2-4-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
7-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
Whenever in the regulations contained in this title, including the regulations
adopted by reference, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval
of or subject to the direction of the building commissioner or any other
officer of the village, this shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by this
code have been complied with and no such provision shall be construed as giving
any officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall
be or power to require conditions not prescribed by this code or to enforce the
provisions of this code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. (Ord. 2011-O-
07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-6: RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; INTERPRETATION:
The previously published books or pamphlets described and referred to in this
title and the regulations and standards contained therein or in the described
portions thereof, modified in some cases as noted herein, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this title. In the event of a conflict between
this title, or any part thereof, and such regulations and standards adopted by
reference, the provisions of this title shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 2011-O-
07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-7: LOAD AND CAPACITY PLACARDS REQUIRED:
Owners shall post and maintain a sign, placard or plate in approved form, after
making application so to do, showing safe loading for each floor and safe
capacity in persons at entrances of each room, floor or building built or used
for any of the following purposes: school, church, public assembly, residential
institution, a place for harboring or housing persons for correctional, medical
or other care or treatment, storing materials, dance or recreation hall,
serving of drinks or food. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-8: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definition: "Nonconforming building or structure" is defined as an
existing building or structure or part or appurtenance thereof not in
conformance with this title.
   B.   Repair Work: Any repair work shall require a written application and
permit and shall be limited to necessary repairs only on the existing structure
unless the building or part thereof is made to conform in whole or part with
the requirements of this title.
   C.   Alterations: Any altering or enlarging of the nonconforming building or
structure shall be done in a manner conforming with this title. (Ord. 2011-O-
07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-9: HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS OR CONSTRUCTION CONDITIONS:
A building or structure, part or appurtenance thereof, or a construction
condition found to be hazardous to life, limb or health, upon order of the
building commissioner or enacting authority, shall be corrected, repaired,
replaced, vacated, demolished or removed and the premises or work restored to
or put in a safe condition within a reasonable period of time, as may be
appropriate in each case, when such a finding has been made in writing, written
notice of the findings and order has been given the owner or owner's agent or
the contractor, and except in emergencies, a hearing on the order has been held
before the building commissioner. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-10: VARIATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to vary materially from the submitted plans and
specifications for a building or structure unless such variations are submitted
in an amended plan to the building commissioner and approved by the building
commissioner. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-1-11: CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall engage as a
general contractor, subcontractor, or construction manager, for electrical,
heating, air conditioning, sewer work, water, septic or sewage disposal
systems, storm sewer, fence, concrete, driveway, patio, roadway, or
construction work of any nature and description in the village of Lake
Barrington, unless they possess a current license to do business in the village
of Lake Barrington. Fees for such contractors' licenses shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code per year, and each such license shall be valid for twelve
(12) months from the date of issuance. The village administrator shall have the
right to suspend or revoke any such license, after thirty (30) days' notice
sent by regular U.S. mail to the last known address of the licensee in order to
provide the licensee an opportunity to be heard. The village administrator may
consider customer complaints, previous job related issues, failed inspections,
and other relevant information in determining whether or not to revoke,
suspend, and/or decline to reissue such a license. (Ord. 2013-O-12, 9-3-2013)
7-1-12: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
violating any provision of this title, or failing to comply with any of the
requirements thereof, or of erecting, constructing, altering and/or repairing a
building or structure in violation of an approved plan or directive of the
building commissioner, or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under
the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by
fine(s) and other penalties as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permits Required
7-2-2: Application For A Permit
7-2-3: Information To Accompany Application
7-2-4: Approval Of Application And Plans
7-2-5: Action On Permit Application
7-2-6: Building Permit And Inspection Fees
7-2-7: Bond Refunds
7-2-8: Foundation Surveys Required
7-2-9: Final As Built Surveys Required
7-2-10: Unauthorized Changes In Site Grading Prohibited
7-2-11: General Lot Drainage Requirements
7-2-12: Foundation Grading
7-2-13: Construction Hours Limited
7-2-14:    Permits And Related Fees Applicable To The Lake Barrington Shores
Planned Development
7-2-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No building or structure, or parts or appurtenances thereof, such as water
supply, sewage disposal, plumbing installation and electrical installation in
the village shall be fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged, installed,
altered, converted, remodeled, structurally repaired, moved, demolished or
changed when the cost of the same exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00) or
where the effect of the same is to enlarge the capacity or affect the bearing
walls of any building or roof thereof, without a permit having first been
secured from the building commissioner. All applications for permits shall
comply with all of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT:
   A.   Application: All applications for building permits shall be made to the
Building Commissioner (also sometimes referred to in this Title as the
"Building Official") on forms provided by the Village and shall be accompanied
by plans and specifications showing the work to be done. Each application shall
be signed by an owner or authorized agent, or by the contractor in charge of
the operations.
   B.   Amendments: Subject to the approval of the building commissioner,
building permit applications may be amended during construction.
   C.   Alteration And/Or Additions: A new building permit must be obtained for
any alterations and/or additions which are proposed after completion of any
work for which a permit has been issued.
   D.   Permit Fee: The applicant is required to pay to the village all
applicable permit fee(s), which fee(s) must accompany the respective permit
application(s). Such fee(s) shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. (Ord. 2011-O-013, 5-3-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-2-3: INFORMATION TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION:
   Any party submitting plans, drawings, plats, and/or surveys for the purpose
(s) of seeking any Village permit(s), permission(s), or approval(s) shall be
required to submit to the Village one (1) complete digital version of each of
such documents and of all revisions and the final forms thereof, if and when
approved by the Village, which all shall be provided to the Village by
electronic transmission.
   A.   Material Required: Whenever pursuant to this Title any documents are to
be submitted to the Village, one (1) complete digital version of each required
submittal shall be transmitted to the Village by electronic transmission shall
be required to be submitted to the Village. This requirement shall be
applicable to descriptive material, in drawn and written form, which in the
aggregate sets forth the location and design of buildings, structures, water
supply system(s), the sewage disposal system, plumbing and electrical
installations and tests as required by the Building Commissioner to assure
compliance with this Village Code and other applicable laws, rules and
regulations and shall be submitted in digital format to the Building
Commissioner:
      1.   List of Contractors and Subcontractors: Completed building permit
application for submission to the Village shall include the list of contractors
and subcontractors who will be working on the project, license numbers where
applicable, together with their respective contact names and such other
information as mailing addresses, e-mail addresses, and telephone numbers.
      2.   Soil Reports: An approved Lake County Health Department permit shall
include not less than one (1) copy of the soil report.
      3.   Watershed Development Ordinance Permit Application: Completed
"watershed development ordinance permit" application.
      4.   Acknowledgment Of Covenants: Signed and dated "acknowledgment of
possible covenants, conditions and restrictions of record" as specified in
subsection C of this section.
      5.   Approval Letter: If required by an applicable annexation agreement
or PUD ordinance, a "subdivision architectural control approval letter" for the
project.
      6.   Building Plans: One (1) complete digital version of each required
document shall be transmitted to the Village in a digital format by electronic
transmission for a proposed project stamped by an Illinois licensed architect
and shall be provided to the Village with the permit application. Said plans
shall include the front elevation, the rear elevation, the side elevations, and
all other exterior elevations of each building or structure on which work shall
be done, and a site plan. Floor plans for all levels drawn on a scale of one-
fourth inch equals one foot (1/4" = 1') shall be included, and each plan shall
include the dimensions, functions, structural and electrical layout, wall
sections and details of construction materials and include light and
ventilation schedules.
      7.   A topographical site plan for the project shall be provided with the
application. Such topographic site plan shall include but not be limited to at
least one hundred feet (100') of the surrounding properties showing: top of
foundation elevations, all existing and proposed building including underground
facilities and the location of each, driveway culvert location, accurate
dimensions, lot boundaries, and distances between all improvements; a tree
survey as required by Chapter 1 of Title 11 of this Village Code ("Protection
and Preservation of Existing Trees") which shows the size, quality, health, and
species of trees which may be impacted by the project. One (1) complete digital
version of such topographic site plan shall be transmitted to the Village by
electronic transmission.
      8.   Plat of Survey: One (1) complete digital version of a lot survey
with property stakes shown marking each corner of the lot prepared, signed,
sealed, and certified by a professional land surveyor registered in the State
of Illinois shall be transmitted to the Village by electronic transmission.
      9.   Fire Suppression and Alarm System: One (1) set of drawings of any
proposed fire suppression system and, if applicable, any alarm system, for
review and approval. One (1) complete digital version of each required document
shall be transmitted to the Village by electronic transmission.
      10.   Site Plan: One (1) digital version of each sealed original of each
document comprising the site plan shall be submitted to and transmitted to the
Village by electronic transmission for review and approval by the Village,
which site plan shall be drawn to scale by a registered professional engineer
or licensed Illinois land surveyor, and which shall (the following requirements
are separate and in addition to the requirements for an individual sewage
disposal system permit):
         a.   Be prepared by and certified with the original seal and signature
of a professional engineer or professional land surveyor registered in the
state of Illinois, and shall bear a certification by said professional engineer
or professional land surveyor that the plan complies the approved grading plan
for the project as required by subparagraph (i) below. All information on the
plan shall be certified.
         b.   Be titled "Permit Site Plan".
         c.   Be the size of a standard plan sheet of twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36").
         d.   Have a legal description and Permanent Index Number(s) of the
subject property and street address shown thereon.
         e.   Have a scale of one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20')
(architectural scales are not acceptable).
         f.   All information shall be legible.
         g.   Have a north arrow indication to be either up or to the right.
         h.   Include a "location plan" or a "vicinity plan" for the subject
property.
         i.   Include confirmation by the developer's engineer that the
proposed design correlates with the approved subdivision grading plan.
Compliance with that plan, by specific reference, shall be a part of the
professional land surveyor's or professional engineer's certification.
         j.   Include additional information which may be required if a FEMA
flood zone is within the limits of the survey in accordance with the elevation
certificate instructions per the FEMA national flood insurance program.
         k.   Indicate all of the following locations:
            (1)   Property lines with bearings and dimensions (include arc
length, radius, PC, PT, and included angle for curves).
            (2)    Lot corners (shall be monumented and indicate monument
type).
            (3)   Building setback lines and building lines (located with
dimensions from lot lines).
            (4)   All easements (purpose shall be identified).
            (5)   Trees with a diameter at breast height ("dbh"), i.e., 54
inches above the root ball, of four inches (4") or more, per Chapter 1 of Title
11 of the Village Code.
            (6)   Potable water well (with seventy-five (75) foot radius).
            (7)   All components of the septic system.
            (8)   Driveways (including type of surface).
            (9)   Driveway culvert (including material which shall comply with
the requirements of Section
9-5-3 of this Code, pipe bedding detail, size [minimum twelve (12) inch], and
length).
            (10)   Retaining walls (including upper and lower grades and
material).
            (11)   Gas service, electrical service, private drains, outlet
locations.
            (12)   Topographical features, including swales, shoulders and
culverts within at least one hundred feet (100') of the property that may bear
on the proposed development.
            (13)   Floodplain, floodway, and wetland delineation as applicable.
            (14)   Location of a temporary portable privy (i.e., port-o-potty)
as specified in Section
7-2-5(G) of this Chapter.
            (15)   Location, number and size of portable waste container(s) as
specified in Paragraph
7-2-5(G) of this Chapter.
         l.   Elevations shall:
            (1)   Include bench mark description and elevation.
            (2)   All elevations shall be to the North American Vertical Datum
of 1988 (NAVD88), or as thereafter amended.
            (3)   Indicate the existing topography and elevation of the
following:
               (A)   Floodway or floodplain, if applicable.
               (B)   Nearby high water/normal water elevation of detention
facilities.
               (C)   Lot corners.
               (D)   Invert of all nearby roadway and driveway culverts.
               (E)    Roadway centerline, edge of pavement, and swale invert
fronting property and within at least one hundred feet (100') of property.
               (F)    Topographical features and grades within at least one
hundred feet (100') of the property that may bear on the proposed development.
               (G)   Spot grades and contours at one foot (1') intervals.
            (4)   Indicate the proposed elevation of the following with a line
and letter quality differing significantly from "existing":
               (A)   Side and rear lot lines including high points, low points,
berms, and swales.
               (B)   Top of building foundation, sill of lookouts, sill of
walkouts, the lowest opening into foundation, and garage floor.
               (C)   All elements of the septic system.
               (D)   Area surrounding septic area to show adequate drainage.
               (E)    Grades adjacent to the foundation including specific
location of lookouts, walkouts, and other openings.
               (F)   Driveway culvert inverts at both ends including grades
above the culvert.
      11.   Septic System: One (1) complete digital version of the septic
system layout approved by the Lake County Health Department, Waukegan, Illinois
("application for permit for individual sewage disposal system"), and approved
by the Village Enforcement Officer in accordance with Title 12 of this Code
relative to individual sewage disposal systems, with sump pump discharge
routing approved by the Building Commissioner, which digital version shall be
submitted to the Village by electronic transmission.
   B.   Waiver Of Requirement: The obligation to provide plans may, in the
discretion of the building commissioner, be waived for minor alterations not
involving structural changes and for residential accessory buildings if such
work is sufficiently described in the application for a permit.
   C.   Acknowledgment: Each applicant for a building permit shall deliver a
copy of the following acknowledgment executed by the applicant and the owners
of record of the property which is the subject of the application:
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF POSSIBLE COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF RECORD:
      The undersigned, having applied to the Village of Lake Barrington for a
building permit, acknowledges:
      1.   That there may be private covenants, conditions and restrictions
running with the title to the property which is the subject of our permit
application which regulate, govern, control and/or affect what type of
improvements may be made on the subject property;
      2.   That the Village, by issuance of a building permit has no power to
and does not abrogate, vary, terminate, waive or release any such covenants,
conditions and restrictions of record which may be applicable to the subject
property;
      3.   That the undersigned remain obligated to comply with such covenants,
conditions and restrictions of record, notwithstanding the fact that they have
received a building permit from the Village of Lake Barrington;
      4.   That the undersigned and their attorney should review a title
insurance policy or title insurance commitment for the subject property to
determine what covenants, conditions and restrictions of record are in fact
applicable to the subject property; and
      5.   That, in consideration for the issuance of a building permit, the
undersigned further agree to hold harmless and indemnify the Village, its
officers, employees and agents, from any cost, claim, expense or liability to
the Village, resulting directly or indirectly from, or related to, any
violation by the undersigned of such covenants, conditions and restrictions of
record as may be applicable to the subject property, including reasonable
attorneys' fees and other costs of defense.
   D.   Foundation Survey: One (1) complete digital version of such foundation
survey shall be provided to the Building Commissioner by electronic
transmission for review and approval after completion of the foundation for any
new building and/or any addition to an existing building and before any further
work on the building or addition shall proceed, and in the event such
foundation survey is not submitted to the Building Commissioner within fifteen
(15) days after the foundation has been completed, the building permit in
question shall be automatically suspended without further action by the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-
2024)
7-2-4: APPROVAL OF APPLICATION AND PLANS:
The building commissioner shall, within a reasonable time, cause to be examined
all applications and plans to determine whether the proposed construction or
alteration will comply with the code provisions relative thereto. Upon
approval, one (1) set of plans shall be returned to the applicant with a permit
and at least one (1) copy of the plans shall be retained by the building
commissioner. No permit shall be issued until after approval of the plans.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)   
7-2-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Denial: The permit shall be denied if plans or proposed work does not
conform to the applicable requirements of this Title and/or other pertinent
laws, rules and regulations, and such other applicable provisions of this Code.
Denial with reasons shall be given in writing upon request.
   B.   Issuance: If the proposed work conforms to the applicable requirements
of this Title and other pertinent laws, rules and regulations, and such other
applicable provisions of this Code, a permit shall be issued in writing to
proceed with work, returning one set of plans and specifications, endorsed by
the Building Commissioner, to be kept on the job site at all times.
   C.   Placard: A permit placard shall be furnished with the permit or as the
permit itself, which is to remain conspicuously posted on the premises at a
location which is visible from the street during the course of the work.
   D.   Expiration Of Permit: Building permits shall expire if work is not
completed within the following designated periods after a building permit is
issued:
      1.   New single- and multiple-family dwellings: Twelve (12) months;
      2.   New commercial/industrial buildings: Twelve (12) months;
      3.   Remodeling, additions, accessory buildings, commercial build- outs:
Six (6) months;
      4.   All other miscellaneous permits: Ninety (90) days.
   E.   Extension of Permit: If, after a building permit has expired and the
permitted work has not been completed within the applicable time frame, the
permit holder must request and obtain a written extension of said permit from
the Building Commissioner before any further work may be commenced or continued
on a project. Notwithstanding this provision, however, the Building
Commissioner is not required to approve the extension of any permit.
      1.   A permit may be extended up to ninety (90) days, at the discretion
of the Building Commissioner, upon a showing by the permit holder that the
permitted work was not completed through no fault of the property owner or of
the permit holder, but only after the payment by the permit holder of the
applicable permit extension fee as set forth in Section
1-10-7, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of
this Code.
      2.   If the permit holder cannot show that the delay was through no fault
of the property owner or of the permit holder, the permit may be extended for
no more than thirty (30) days, at the discretion of the Building Commissioner,
and only for good cause shown, but only after the payment by the permit holder
of the applicable permit extension fee as set forth in Section
1-10-7, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of
this Code.   
      3.   After the initial extension period has lapsed, a permit may be
extended, at the discretion of the Building Commissioner, and only for good
cause shown, for an additional extension period of not more than sixty (60)
days, but only after the payment by the permit holder of the applicable permit
extension fee as set forth in Section
1-10-7, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of
this Code.
   F.   Certificate Of Completion And Occupancy: A certificate of completion
and occupancy (sometimes referred to in this Village Code as a “Certificate of
Occupancy”), which must be secured before a building is occupied, is to be
issued by the building commissioner when an inspection following the completion
of the work shows that all construction is in compliance with this Title and
any other applicable provisions of this Code, any other applicable rules and
regulations, and the respective permit. As a condition precedent to the
issuance of a certificate of completion and occupancy, the following shall be
submitted to the village prior to the Village's issuance of any Certificate of
Occupancy:
      1.   Where applicable, well and septic approvals from the Lake County
health department and an "as built" septic drawing showing the septic lines as
installed and the one hundred percent (100%) expansion area;
      2.   Final "as built" survey (applies to all new construction and
additions); and
      3.   All applicable fees and costs required by this Village Code have
been fully paid.
   G.   Sewage And Waste Requirements During Construction: No building permit
may be issued unless the applicant has made provision for the following which
shall be shown on the approved site plans:
      1.   Sewage: The installation of a portable temporary privy (a “port-o-
potty”) during construction which must remain in a functioning capacity and on
the construction site until the plumbing and sewage disposal systems have been
installed and approved as functioning by the building commissioner; and
      2.   Waste: The installation on the construction site throughout
construction of a portable waste container, dumpster, or other portable
facility to be used for the disposal of all debris. The burning of any refuse
or debris on the construction site is prohibited at all times. (Ord. 2011-O-07,
4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-2-6: BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Fees: The fees for all permits, including any extension(s) thereof, as
may be required by this title shall be as established and as specified from
time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code and shall be assessed by the building commissioner and paid
to the village collector and/or village treasurer.
   B.   Reimbursement For Related Expenses 1 :
      1.   The village president and/or the building commissioner may, at their
discretion, retain such professionals, experts, and/or consultants as either of
them may deem necessary for a full and complete review and consideration of an
application for any building permit, septic permit, driveway permit, site
development permit or any other permit required by this title or the other
ordinances of this village. Such professionals, experts and/or consultants may
include, but shall not be limited to: arborists, architects, attorneys,
building code specialists, conservationists, engineers, environmentalists, fire
code plan review specialists, land planners, landscape architects, soil
scientists, structural engineers, surveyors, wetland experts and such other
professionals, experts or consultants as the village deems necessary and the
cost of such services shall be borne by the applicant as hereinafter provided.
      2.   The applicant shall be obligated to reimburse the village for all
expenses incurred by the village relative to his or her respective application
for the services of any and all of the above described professionals, experts
and consultants.
      3.   All such reimbursement shall be made to the village prior to the
issuance of the permit in question or in the event such expenses cannot be
finally ascertained, the applicant shall be required to deposit with the
village treasurer such amounts reasonably necessary to pay the estimated amount
of such expenses as determined by the Village Administrator. Any portion of
such deposit not expended by the village shall be refunded to the applicant or
petitioner at such time as no further expenditures or charges by the village
are reasonably anticipated.
      4.   If any applicant fails to comply with any of the foregoing
provisions, the village, in addition to such other remedies as provided by law
or the provisions of this title and the other applicable ordinances of this
village and/or any officer, employee, board, committee or commission thereof
may:
         a.   Refuse to process any application for any permit;
         b.   Refuse to make inspections as otherwise required;
         c.   Refuse to issue any applicable permits;
         d.   Cause the forfeiture of any applicable building performance bond
(s) held by the village in accordance with section
7-2-7 of this chapter; and/or
         e.   Refuse to issue a Certificate of Occupancy.
      In addition to the foregoing remedies, and not by way of limitation, the
village may bring action at law to collect any amounts due and owing to the
village under any of the foregoing provisions.
      5.   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy: The Building Commissioner is
authorized to and may, in his or her discretion, issue a Temporary Certificate
of Occupancy before the completion of the entire work or project covered by the
applicable permit, provided that such portion or portions of the subject
structure can be occupied safety safely. The Building Commissioner shall
specify in writing an expiration date for each such Temporary Certificate of
Occupancy. Any occupancy of the subject premises upon expiration of any such
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy is and shall be prohibited and constitute a
violation of this Village Code. No Temporary Certificate of Occupancy may
exceed six (6) months in length.
      6.   Revocation of Any Certificate of Occupancy: The Building
Commissioner is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke any temporary or
final Certificate of Occupancy issued under the provisions of this Village Code
wherever he or she determines that the Certificate was issued in error, or on
the basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the
subject building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of any
ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this Village Code. Any
occupancy of the subject premises after the suspension or revocation of any
applicable occupancy permit shall constitute a violation of this Village Code.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-
2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-4 of this code.
7-2-7: BOND REFUNDS:
   Refund: Where a cash bond deposit has previously been made under the prior
provisions of this Section 7-2-7 or under other prior provisions of this
Village Code, if after a thorough investigation the building commissioner finds
that the construction, addition, or remodeling has been completed and all plan
review, inspection, engineering, and associated review fees and charges have
been fully paid in compliance with the rules, regulations and provisions of
this Code and with state law, the Village Board will approve the refund of such
cash performance bond, if any, and all inspections and all other applicable
approvals have been approved by the Village, but said cash performance bond, if
any, shall only be refunded to the original party that paid the cash
performance bond deposit. A cash performance bond refund form may be obtained
from the village and must be completed by the original party that paid the cash
performance bond and submitted it to the Village for approval by the building
commissioner and the Village accountant before being placed on a warrant for
approval by the Village Board. No other party or entity shall be entitled to
receive the refund of a cash performance bond deposit except the original party
that made the original cash performance bond deposit.
(Ord. 2013-O-07, 6-5-2013, eff. retroactive to 4-26-2013; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05,
2-4-2020; Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-2024)
7-2-8: FOUNDATION SURVEYS REQUIRED:
   A.   A complete digital version of a plat of survey (also known as a "spot
survey" or "foundation survey") prepared by a licensed land surveyor or
professional engineer shall be required when any foundation is completed. Such
digital version of such foundation survey shall be provided by electronic
transmission to the Building Commissioner for review and approval after
completion of the foundation for any new building and/or any addition to an
existing building and before any further work on the building or addition shall
proceed, and in the event such foundation survey is not submitted to the
Building Commissioner within fifteen (15) days after the foundation has been
completed, the building permit in question shall be automatically suspended
without further action by the Building Commissioner. A plat of the lot(s) or
parcel(s) of land, or parts or portion thereof, drawn to a scale showing the
actual dimensions of the lot(s) or parcel(s), the location of all buildings and
improvements, including excavations and foundation walls, and the elevation of
all levels of the top of foundation with respect to NAVD88 datum, and certified
by a registered land surveyor licensed by the State of Illinois as a true copy
of a survey of the subject lot(s) or parcel(s) shall be submitted by electronic
transmission to the Building Commissioner for review and approval of the
foundation elevation and location immediately after the foundation walls have
been completed. Further construction shall not commence on any completed
foundation walls until the foundation wall elevations shown on the plat have
been reviewed and approved by the Building Commissioner. Said plat, spot
survey, or "foundation survey" shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Such survey shall be prepared, signed, sealed and certified by a
professional land surveyor or professional engineer registered in the state of
Illinois.
      2.   The legal description, permanent index number, and street address
shall be clearly set forth thereon.
      3.   The scale of such survey shall be one inch equals twenty feet (1" =
20') (architectural scales are not acceptable).
      4.   All information on such plat shall be legible.
      5.   Exterior dimensions of all foundations, buildings and/or other
improvements at ground level shall be shown.
      6.   Such survey shall be titled "foundation survey".
      7.   At least one (1) complete digital version of such survey shall be
transmitted by electronic transmission to the Village.
      8.   The location of the following shall be clearly indicated:
         a.   Property lines with bearings and dimensions;
         b.   Building setback lines and foundation lines (located with
dimensions from lot lines); and
         c.   All easements and the respective purpose of each such easement
shall be identified.
         d.   Such foundation survey, to qualify for approval by the Building
Commissioner, shall show no encroachments by the building, foundation, and/or
other improvements of any lot line, of any easement, and of any zoning setback
or platted setback line.
      9.   All of the following elevations shall be clearly indicated:
         a.   Bench mark description and elevation (from approved permit site
plan).
         b.   All elevations shall be to NAVD88 datum.
         c.   Elevation of:
            (1)   Top of foundation, sill of lookouts, sill of walkouts, sill
of lowest opening into the foundation.
            (2)   Brick ledge, where applicable.
            (3)   Garage floor.
            (4)   Driveway culvert.
   B.   Acceptance of the location and elevation of foundation walls shall be
shown by an electronic stamp on the plat of survey marked "APPROVED, Village of
Lake Barrington Building Department", with the date and the electronic
signature of the building commissioner.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-
2024)
7-2-9: FINAL AS BUILT SURVEYS REQUIRED:
   A.   One (1) digital version of a final as built topographical survey of the
lot grading in a readable format shall be submitted by electronic transmission
to and approved by both the building commissioner and village engineer. Such
survey shall also be prepared and sealed by an Illinois registered land
surveyor.
   B.   Final as built surveys shall show the following information and meet
the following minimum requirements (additional detail may be required for each
individual property):
      1.   Said survey shall be prepared, signed, sealed and certified by a
professional land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois.
      2.   Said survey shall be titled, "Plat Of Survey, Final As-Built
Survey".
      3.   Such survey shall be in a readable digital format and transmitted by
electronic transmission to the Village.
      4.   The legal description, permanent index number, and street address
shall be shown on such survey.
      5.   The scale of such required as-built survey shall be one inch equals
twenty feet (1" = 20') (architectural scales are not acceptable).
      6.   All information shall be legible.
      7.   A certificate of occupancy will not be issued until all required
soil erosion measures are in place and grass or other suitable ground cover is
growing and cuttable and is at least 70% established, or if in the form of sod,
in a firm and healthy condition.
      8.   FEMA flood zone limits in accordance with the elevation certificate
instructions per FEMA national flood insurance program.
      9.   One (1) digital version of the sealed original and one (1) copy of
the as built survey shall be submitted by electronic transmission to the
Village.
      10.   Said survey shall indicate all of the following locations:
         a.   Property lines with bearings and dimensions (include arc length,
radius, PC, PT, and included angle for curves).
         b.   Lot corners (shall be monumented and indicate monument type).
         c.   Building setback lines and building lines (located with
dimensions from lot lines).
         d.   All easements and the respective purpose of each such easement
shall be identified.
         e.   Impervious areas on lot, including driveways (include type of
surface), sidewalks, patios, and retaining walls (with upper and lower grades,
and material).
         f.   Topography at one foot (1') contour spacing including swales,
shoulders, roadway culverts, driveway culverts (for culverts include material,
existence of FES, size, elevation of inverts, and grades above culvert),
required for the subject property and within the entire width of any adjacent
right of way.
         g.    Utilities, including septic area, necessarily accessible
components of septic system, water well (with 75 foot radius), gas service,
electrical service, and private drain lines (including sump pit).
         h.    Floodplain or floodway elevations and delineation in one foot
(1') intervals (if applicable).
         i.    Wetland delineation.
      11.   The elevations shown on said survey shall include:
         a.   Bench mark description and elevation (from approved permit site
plan).
         b.   All elevations shall be to NAVD88 datum.
         c.   Elevation of the following:
            (1)   Street centerline, shoulders, and swales at front property
corners and at minimum fifty foot (50') spacing (indicate if roadway elevations
are finish, binder, or aggregate surface).
            (2)   All lot corners and property lines at minimum fifty foot
(50') spacing.
            (3)   All building top of foundations, sill of lookouts, sill of
walkouts, garage floor, and sill of lowest opening into foundation.
            (4)   Grades adjacent to the foundation including driveway at
garage.
            (5)   Grades on and around septic area to show adequate drainage
away from area.
            (6)   Bridge ledges.
            (7)   All impervious grading features.
            (8)   All necessarily accessible components of the septic system.
            (9)   Grading of lot shall be shown as as-built contours on
pervious areas. For gradients of less than two percent (2%), six inch (6")
contours shall be shown; for gradients of more than two percent (2%), one foot
(1') contours shall be shown.
            (10)   Information shall be included to indicate whether the
elevations are on finished sodded surface or on finish graded topsoil.
      12.   A final occupancy permit shall not be issued if the property is not
in compliance with the approved foundation plat of survey, the approved site
plan, the approved septic plan, the approved final lot grading plan, the
approved final "as built" survey, and the approved final engineering for the
subdivision.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2024-O-11, 5-9-
2024)
7-2-10: UNAUTHORIZED CHANGES IN SITE GRADING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No grades within the village shall be disturbed or otherwise altered
except as allowed pursuant to a site development permit issued by the Building
Commissioner.
   B.   Any change in grading done without authorization of the Building
Commissioner shall be regraded and restored to its original approved grades, at
owner's expense. If not completed within fourteen (14) days, regrading may be
ordered by the village and charged to owner.
   C.   No final occupancy permit or other indication of approval of new
construction shall be issued or given by the building commissioner until all
grade requirements set forth in this section and other applicable provisions of
this code have been met. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-
2020)
7-2-11: GENERAL LOT DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Nonresidential Lots: All lots, other than residentially zoned
properties, shall be drained into village approved drainage structures or areas
of containment within said lot. Drainage onto lots that abut said lot shall be
strictly prohibited unless those lots are designed to accommodate such drainage
as approved by the village engineer. The passage of drainage to other lots
shall be documented as drainage easements and shall not be obstructed or
altered from its designed use.
   B.   Residential Lots: Residentially zoned lots shall be graded and drained
in such a manner as not to allow any drainage onto those lots which abut such
lot. Drainage shall be directed into village approved drainage swales and/or
easements provided for and approved for such use. The passage of drainage to
other lots shall be documented as drainage easements or swales and shall not be
obstructed or altered from its designed use.
   C.   Drainage Into Right Of Way: Surface drainage of any lot shall not be
directed into any right of way unless approved by the village engineer.
   D.   Point Of Discharge To Be Set Back; Certain Connections To Storm Sewers
Required:
      1.   The point of discharge (at or above grade) of any sump pump drain,
swimming pool drain, downspout drain or any other conduit, pipe, impervious
surface, or drain not connected to a septic system or to a sprinkler system
which channels, collects or conveys water related to any structure or
improvement shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any property line of
the lot or parcel on which the structure or improvement is located as required
by subparagraph D(4) unless such conduit, pipe, impervious surface, or drain is
connected directly to a storm sewer within a public right of way (or one
offered for dedication) or within a recorded drainage easement and such
connection and the manner of such connection shall have been approved in
advance in writing by the village engineer.
      2.   Every sump drain, swimming pool drain, downspout drain or any other
conduit, pipe, impervious surface, or drain not connected to a septic system or
to a sprinkler system which temporarily, occasionally, periodically, or
permanently channels, collects or conveys unpolluted water related to any
structure or improvement shall be connected to a storm sewer which is within a
public right of way (or one offered for public dedication) or within a recorded
drainage easement if such a storm sewer exists within seventy five feet (75')
of the point on the perimeter of such improvement or structure where such
conduit, pipe, or drain commences, and such connection shall have been approved
in advance in writing by the village engineer.
      3.   Any point of discharge, whether at or below grade, of any sump pump
drain, swimming pool drain, downspout drain or any other conduit, pipe,
impervious surface, or drain not connected to a septic system or to a sprinkler
system which channels, collects or conveys water related to any structure or
improvement shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any property line of
the lot or parcel on which the structure or improvement shall be required to be
set back further than ten feet (10') from any property line of any lot or
parcel on which the structure is located if the Building Commissioner
determines that such point of discharge can reasonably be expected to cause or
is causing any standing water and/or any other nuisance drainage condition on
any adjoining or nearby property. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-
05, 2-4-2020)
7-2-12: FOUNDATION GRADING:
   A.   All foundation grades shall be established in such a manner as to
achieve the free and unobstructed flow of surface water, away from the
buildings.
   B.   Every application for a building permit shall show the proposed
foundation grade and set forth a grading plan for the proposed construction of
the entire lot, determined in accordance with this section and all other
applicable provisions of this code. No building permit shall be issued unless
the proposed foundation grade for the building and grading plan is in
accordance with the provisions of this section and all other applicable
provisions of this code.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued by the Building Commissioner unless
there is on file an approved final grading plan for such subdivision, and the
proposed foundation elevation and lot grading for the lot in question shall
substantially comply with same.
   D.   Every building constructed in a location for which a final grading plan
is on file shall conform to said final grading plan. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011;
amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-2-13: CONSTRUCTION HOURS LIMITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance to cause, permit or
suffer any building or construction or site work operations (including, but not
limited to, excavation, filling, grading, vegetation clearance or tree removal)
at any time on any Sunday or at any time on any legal holiday and also before
the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and/or after the hour of seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. on all other days, except when required to take emergency remedial
action in response to an act of God or other casualty loss. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-
6-2011)
7-2-14: PERMITS AND RELATED FEES APPLICABLE TO THE LAKE BARRINGTON SHORES
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
There are hereby established certain permits and related fees which shall be
applicable only to properties and common elements located within the Lake
Barrington Shores Planned Development (hereinafter sometimes referred to as
"LBS" or as the "LBS Development"), including but not limited to the following:
   A.   Blanket Building Permit(s):
      1.   A Blanket Building Permit (sometimes referred to herein as a
"Blanket Permit") is an annual building permit that the Village may issue only
to the Lake Barrington Community Homeowners' Association ("LBCHA") for a
specific project which encompasses the same work to be performed on the
exterior of one or more condominium buildings and/or the adjacent property and/
or on common areas within the LBS Development during the same permit period,
which permit shall be issued on an annual basis and shall be valid for a period
from May 1 through April 30 of the following year unless otherwise noted on the
Permit. Issuance of a Blanket Building Permit requires submittal by the LBCHA
of and payment to the Village of the following:   
         a.   A completed application for a Blanket Permit, together with the
payment of the related application fee(s), and reimbursement to the Village for
any related costs incurred by the Village relative to the subject project,
including but not limited to engineering fee(s), inspection fee(s), and/or plan
review fee(s), which fee(s) and cost(s) are as specified from time to time in
Section 1-10-7 of this Village Code;
         b.   A copy of the contractor's proposal, or in lieu of the
contractor's proposal, a reasonable amount of project detail shall be provided
about the subject project to the Village as determined by the Village
Administrator;
         c.   A copy of the plans and drawings for the subject project; and
         d.   By April 30 of each year, the LBCHA shall provide to the
Village's Building Department a list containing the addresses or areas where
work was completed for each such annual Blanket Permit issued.
      2.   Work which requires the issuance of a Blanket Building Permit shall
include but not be limited to the following:
         a.   Concrete Sidewalks: The Village will review all plans for repair
and/or replacement of concrete sidewalks and conduct inspection(s) of the work,
if applicable. For replace   ment of concrete sidewalks, the Village's Building
Inspector(s) must inspect and approve the risers in the field for any steps.
      b.   Driveways and Private Roads Within the LBS Development: A Blanket
Permit shall be required for resurfacing, repair and/or replacement of driveway
(s) and/or private road(s) within the LBS Development, and any such Blanket
Permit(s) shall be issued only to the LBCHA. Blanket Permits for driveway
resurfacing, repair and/or replacement shall cover all of those driveways which
are resurfaced, repaired and/or replaced during the specific term of the
respective Blanket Permit issued for a particular 12-month period, unless
otherwise noted on the Permit. The Village's Building Inspector(s) shall review
each application for a Blanket Permit submitted by the LBCHA for repair and/or
replacement of driveways. However, if the LBCHA is resurfacing, removing and
replacing a private road or adding a new private road, the LBCHA shall submit
to the Village for the prior review and written approval by the Village
Engineers all plans therefor prior to commencement of any work by the LBCHA
and/or its contractor(s) regardless of the scope of work. The LBCHA shall also
be required to reimburse the Village for any plan review costs and/or any
engineering costs incurred by the Village for such project.
         c.   Fence Repair and/or Replacement: The LBCHA, as the applicant for
the required annual Blanket Permit for such work, shall also be required to
reimburse the Village for all necessary plan review costs incurred by the
Village related to the Blanket Permit. One annual Blanket Permit for fence
repair and/or replacement will be issued to the LBCHA for each Village fiscal
year. Submittal to the Village of the contractor proposal(s) for fence repair
and/or replacement work shall not be required as such work is performed on an
"as needed" basis. Drawings shall be submitted to the Village where determined
by the Village to be necessary based upon the complexity of the fence project
or other special circumstances.
         d.   Tree Removal and/or Replacement: No changes are being made to the
process which is now provided in Section
11-1-4(C)(8) of the Lake Barrington Village Code.
         e.   Retaining Walls:
            (1)   Any work proposed to be performed on a retaining wall forty-
eight inches (48") in height or greater shall require application by the LBCHA
for and issuance of an annual Blanket Permit. No permit is required for work on
a retaining wall which is less than forty-eight inches (48") in height. Annual
Blanket Permits for retaining walls shall be handled in the same manner as a
fence permit unless the LBCHA requests the Village's Building Inspector(s) or
Village Engineer to review and approve a specific retaining wall project, in
which case the same process as a Building Structural Repair Permit will be
utilized and, in such cases, the LBCHA shall apply for a separate, additional
project-based Building/Structural Repair Permit and submission by LBCHA or its
contractor to the Village of the related contractor proposal and plans for
Village review and approval prior to commencement of any work. The application
for such a project-based permit or for an annual Blanket Permit shall require
payment of an application fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code. The LBCHA, as the applicant for such permit, shall also be
required to reimburse the Village for all required plan review costs incurred
by the Village and for any inspection(s).
            (2)   Any retaining wall proposed to be installed or repaired by a
unit owner or the contractor for the unit owner shall require application to
the Village for approval of a project permit for the project, together with
payment of any required fee(s) for such permit, prior to commencement of any
work on such project as provided by the other applicable provisions of this
Village Code.
         f.   Storm Sewers:
            (1)   The addition or relocation of new storm sewer(s) shall
require the issuance by the Village of an annual Blanket Permit, which permit
will be issued to the LBCHA.
            (2)   Each repair or reconstruction of any existing storm sewer
shall require the issuance by the Village of a Blanket Permit.
            (3)   The LBCHA, as the applicant for each such permit, shall also
be required to reimburse the Village for any engineering fees and any plan
review costs incurred by the Village for such project(s).
      3.   The Village of Lake Barrington shall not be obligated to conduct any
inspection(s) of the work performed within the LBS Planned Development pursuant
to a Blanket Building Permit issued to the LBCHA.
      4.   The LBCHA is obligated to, and it shall be the sole responsibility
of the LBCHA to ensure that the project for which a Blanket Building Permit is
issued has been completed according to the plans approved by the Village and in
compliance with any inspection(s) by the Village's Building Department. No work
shall be commenced by the LBCHA and/or by its contractor(s) prior to the LBCHA
receiving the prior written approval of the Village.
   B.   Project Permit:
      1.   A Project Permit may be issued to either the LBCHA, to a specific
Condominium Association, or to a specific condominium owner(s) within the LBS
Development, as the case may be, for work related to a specific condominium
unit, to a specific condominium building, and/or to a certain common element as
specified herein, within the LBS Development. A Project Permit shall be valid
for a period of six (6) months.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of any Project Permit or commencement of any
work on a project, the applicant must submit the following to the Village:
         a.   A completed application for such permit, together with payment of
the related application fee(s) as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code;
         b.   A copy of the contractor's proposal, or in lieu of the
contractor's proposal, a reasonable amount of project detail shall be provided
to the Village as determined by the Village Administrator; and
         c.   Project-specific plans for the subject project for the prior
review and written approval of the Village's Building Inspector, or the Village
Engineer, as the case may be.
         Standard inspections for each Project Permit shall also be required.
The permit applicant is also required to reimburse the Village for any related
costs incurred by the Village relative to the subject Project Permit, including
but not limited to engineering fee(s), plan review fee(s), and/or inspection
fee(s), which fee(s) and cost(s) shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-10-7 of this Village Code.
      3.   Work which requires the issuance of a Project Permit includes but is
not limited to the following:
         a.   Roof Replacement: A Project Permit for a roof replacement shall
be applied for by and issued to either the respective Condominium Association
for a particular condominium building or to the contractor of such Condominium
Association. One permit will be issued for each entire building. Such a Project
Permit will include two (2) inspections. Any additional inspection(s) in excess
of two shall be the responsibility of the applicant to pay, the cost of which
inspection(s) is as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code.
         b.   Window and Door Replacements: Permits for window and/or door
replacement shall be applied for by and issued to the individual condominium
owner(s) or to their contractor. Window and/or door replacement have the
potential to cause structural damage to buildings and, therefore, additional
inspections may be required in order to confirm that the installation,
including but not limited to the installation of flashing, is done properly.
The Village's building inspector(s) shall perform and complete inspections of
each project in order to confirm compliance with the Village's Building Codes.
Window replacement shall require nail fins on all four (4) sides of each
window, and each new window shall be properly sealed.
         c.   Building Structural Repairs: All such work shall require the
issuance of a Structural Repair project-based permit, and such a Structural
Repair Permit shall be applied for by and issued to only the respective
Condominium Association and not to individual condominium unit owner(s).
Construction of an outside storage closet shall be considered such a "building
structural repair". An application fee shall accompany the permit application
and the respective Condominium Association shall also be required to reimburse
the Village for the required plan review costs incurred by the Village and any
inspections required for the project, which fees and costs are as specified
from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Village Code. Excluded from such permits are any interior work
in any individual unit as well as repair and/or replacement of windows and
doors performed by the unit owner or the contractor of the unit owner on an
individual unit, which work is addressed by other permit provisions of this
Village Code.
         d.   Fireplaces: The repair and/or replacement of a chimney chase and/
or chimney chase cover are the responsibility of each unit's condominium
association. Structural repair of any component of a chimney below the chimney
chase cover shall be the responsibility of the individual condominium owner(s),
and for such work, a permit for a Residential Miscellaneous Project shall be
required. A permit shall not be required for any work on a chimney chase or
chimney chase cover from the roof line up. However, a Structural Repair Permit
shall be required for any work below the roof line. The required Structural
Repair Permit must be applied for by and shall be issued only to the respective
condominium owner or their contractor(s). A separate permit shall be required
for each such project, and the required application fee shall accompany the
completed permit application. The applicant shall also be required to reimburse
the Village for the required plan review costs incurred by the Village, and for
any inspections. The fees and costs for such Structural Repair Permits shall be
as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code.
         e.   Lake and Shoreline: The LBCHA is responsible for any work on and/
or related to the body of water known as Lake Barrington and/or to its
shoreline. A Project Permit for such work shall be issued only to the LBCHA or
to its contractor(s). In some cases, a Watershed Development Permit issued by
the Village or by the Lake County Stormwater Management Commission as required
by Chapter 1, "Watershed Development", of Title 10, "Flood Control", of the
Lake Barrington Village Code shall also be required. Prior to commencement of
any work thereon, the LBCHA is required to submit a completed application to
the Village for a Project Permit for any such work, together with payment of
the respective application fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code, as well as a copy of the specific plans for each such
project for the prior review and written approval by the Village Engineer. The
LBCHA shall be required to reimburse the Village for any fee(s) for plan
review, engineering, inspection(s), and for any other costs incurred by the
Village with respect to such project.
         f.   Sanitary Sewers (Unit to Lateral Line Only, Not for a Main): The
LBCHA shall be responsible for any work on and/or related to sanitary sewers
located within and/or serving the LBS Planned Development. New, relocated,
repaired, and/or reconstructed sanitary sewers shall require a specific Project
Permit. The permit for such project shall be treated as a Quick Release Permit,
whenever practical to do so. A Project Permit for such work shall be issued
only to the LBCHA or to its contractor(s). Prior to commencement of any work
thereon, the LBCHA is required to submit a completed application to the Village
for a Project Permit for any such work, together with payment of the respective
application fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-10-7 of this Code, as well as a copy of the contractor's proposal and
specific plans for each such project for the prior review and written approval
by the Village's Building Inspector(s). The LBCHA shall be required to
reimburse the Village for any fee(s) for plan review, engineering, inspection
(s), and for any other costs incurred by the Village with respect to a specific
project. The LBCHA is also required to reimburse the Village for any related
plan review, engineering and/or inspection fee(s) which are as specified from
time to time in Section 1-10-7 of this Code. (Ord. 2024-O-12, 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Building Code Adopted
7-3-2: Electrical Code Adopted
7-3-3: Plumbing Code Adopted
7-3-4: Fire Code Adopted
7-3-5: Life Safety Regulations Adopted (Rep. by Ord. 99-O-3, 1-5-1999)
7-3-6: One- And Two-Family Dwelling Code Adopted
7-3-7: Swimming Pool And Spa Code Adopted
7-3-8: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
7-3-9: Elevator And Escalator Standards
7-3-10: Mechanical Code Adopted
7-3-11:    Fuel Gas Code Adopted
7-3-12:    Energy Conservation Code Adopted
7-3-13:    Existing Building Code Adopted
7-3-14:    Radon Mitigation
7-3-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: That certain printed document, being marked and
designated as the ICC International Building Code, 2018 edition, as published
by the International Code Council, Inc. (sometimes referred to in this title as
the "IBC"), a copy of which code was on file and available for public
inspection and/or copying by the public in the office of the village clerk for
at least thirty (30) days prior to adoption hereof, be and is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this title as the rules and regulations governing
the fabrication, erection, construction, enlargement, alteration and repair of
buildings and other structures in the village; and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fabricate, erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair or cause to be
fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged, altered or repaired any building or
structure in the village, in violation of or without complying with those rules
and regulations, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this code, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, as set forth below.
   B.   Amendments, Deletions, Additions, Modifications: The following
amendments, deletions, additions and modifications are hereby made to the ICC
International Building Code, 2018, as adopted in subsection A of this section.
The following sections are hereby amended as follows:
   Section 101.1 - Insert: "the Village of Lake Barrington" as the name of
jurisdiction.
   Section 105.2 - Work Exempt from Permit: Subparagraphs 1, 2, 4, 6, and 9 are
hereby deleted from the "Building" part of this Section.
   Section 113.1 is hereby deleted and replaced as follows:
      113.1 General. The owner of a building or structure or any other person
may appeal to the board of trustees from a decision of the building official
applying or interpreting the provisions of this code covering the manner of
construction or materials to be used in the erection, alteration or repair of a
building or structure. Applications for appeal may be made when it is claimed
that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have
been incorrectly interpreted or applied.
   Sections 113.2 and 113.3 are hereby deleted.
   Section 114.4 - Violation penalties, is hereby amended to read as follows:
      114.4 Violation penalties. Any person who violates a provision of this
code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects,
constructs, alters or repairs a building or structure in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Building Official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to penalties as provided from time to time in Section 1-4-1 of the
Village Code, and each day that a violation has existed or continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
   Section 115.3 - Unlawful continuance, is hereby amended to read as follows:
      115.3 Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject
to the mandatory daily penalties as provided from time to time in Section 1-4-
1 of the Village Code, and each day that a violation has existed or continues
to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   The definitions of "Occupancy" and "Occupied" are hereby added to Section
202, Definitions, are defined as follows:
      Occupancy: The purpose for which a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used. The term "occupancy" shall include but shall not be
limited to the placement of personal property ordinarily utilized for such
purpose.
      Occupied: As applied to a building, shall be construed as though followed
by the words "or intended, arranged or designed to be occupied". The term
"occupied" shall include but shall not be limited to the placement of any
personal property ordinarily utilized for the purpose for which a building, or
part thereof, is used or intended to be used.
   Section 903.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
      903.2 Where Required: Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed and
maintained in full operating condition as specified in this code, and in the
following locations:
      1.   In new construction for all buildings and structures, except in
public garages, open parking structures and outside building canopies not
separated from the main structure by a minimum 2-hour fire resistance rated
assembly, as specified in the applicable sections 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or
903.3.1.3; and
      Exception: Detached structures, which comply with all of the following,
do not require automatic fire sprinklers:
      a.   Less than five hundred (500) square feet in area.
      b.   Single story.
      c.   Not used as a dwelling or for sleeping.
      d.   Not a high hazard group.
      e.   Not used for high hazard products or hazardous materials.
      f.   The structure has no basement(s).
      g.   The structure has a minimum separation to other buildings of twenty
(20) feet.
      2.   In new additions to all existing buildings and structures, as
specified in the applicable sections 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3; and
      3.   Throughout all existing buildings and structures to which a new
addition is attached, when the existing building or structure is not separated
from the addition by minimum 3-hour fire resistance rated walls, or where there
is more than one minimum 3-hour fire resistance rated side-hinged single door
assembly with automatic closure between the addition and the original
structure, as specified in the applicable sections 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or
903.3.1.3; and
      4.   Throughout all existing buildings and structures less than 5,000
square feet in gross floor area (minus the thickness of exterior walls) and not
otherwise subject to the automatic sprinkler system requirements of this code,
in which one of the following has occurred:
         a.   Remodeling, reconstruction or alteration (as defined herein) of
50% or more of the gross floor area of the building or structure (minus the
thickness of exterior walls) over a three year period; or
         b.   A change of any portion of the building or structure to an
occupancy type having a higher fire rating as determined by table 903.1.2; as
specified in section 903.1.2;
      5.   In all existing buildings or structures greater than 5,000 square
feet in gross floor area (minus the thickness of exterior walls) and not
otherwise subject to the automatic sprinkler system requirements of this code,
in which one of the following has occurred:
         a.   Remodeling, reconstruction or alteration (as defined herein) of
50% or more, or 5,000 square feet or more, of the gross floor area of the
building or structure (minus the thickness of exterior walls) over a three year
period; or
         b.   A change of any portion of the building or structure to an
occupancy type having a higher fire rating as determined by table 903.1.2, as
specified in the applicable sections 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3
provided, however, that the automatic sprinkler system shall be permitted to be
installed in not more than two phases, with the first phase to be completed
with and fully serve the area being altered or undergoing the change of
occupancy type, and the second phase to be completed with the alteration of, or
change of occupancy type to, any other portion of the building or structure. In
addition, the area included in the second phase must be provided with approved
fire detection at the time of first phase sprinkler installation.
      6.   In all instances in which the system would be required by the ICC
international building code or these, the system shall be constructed of such a
design and components to meet the specific criteria set forth in the
international building code 2018 edition.
      7.   Exceptions: Automatic sprinkler systems shall not be required in any
of the following:
         a.   Private garages designed to house four or less vehicles.
         b.   Electrical equipment rooms where the voltage exceeds 250 volts.
Sprinklers shall be permitted to be omitted provided that all of the following
are completed:
            (i)   An alternate approved suppression system is installed; and
            (ii)   The rooms are provided with an approved fire detection
system in accordance with appropriate section of NFPA 72 listed in chapter 35;
and
            (iii)   2-hour fire resistance rated walls, floors and ceilings are
installed; and
            (iv)   Door openings are protected with minimum 11/2-hour fire
rated door assemblies; and
            (v)   A minimum 20 BC fire extinguisher is provided immediately
outside the entrance to the electrical room.
      8.   Use group U, as identified in table 903.1.2, "Fire Grading Of
Occupancy Types", when approved by the building official and the fire official.
      9.   In telecommunication equipment buildings, an automatic fire
suppression system shall not be required in those spaces or areas occupied
exclusively for telecommunication equipment, associated electrical power
distribution equipment, batteries and standby engines, provided that those
spaces or areas are equipped throughout with an automatic fire detection system
in accordance with section 907.0 and are separated from the remainder of the
building with fire separation assemblies consisting of 1-hour fire resistance
rated walls and 2-hour fire resistance rated floor/ceiling assemblies.
      10.   Existing buildings or structures smaller than 1,000 square feet in
aggregate gross floor area (excluding the thickness of exterior walls),
provided they are separated from all other structures on all sides by a
distance of not less than 10 feet.
      11.   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions and
meanings shall apply:
      Alteration: Alteration shall include, but not be limited to, alteration
of floors, walls, partitions, ceilings, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
systems. Alterations to decorative coverings of floors, walls, partitions and
ceilings shall not be included, nor shall the alteration or replacement of
electrical or plumbing fixtures and trims be included, so long as the
underlying piping, electrical raceways, etc., are not altered. Exterior facade
alterations shall not be included, unless egress capacity is reduced.
      Area Of Alteration: For the purposes of determining the area affected by
alteration, the building official shall include rooms and areas reduced or
enlarged by such work, rooms and areas whose electrical, plumbing or mechanical
systems or infrastructure are altered, and rooms and areas whose egress
capacity or travel distance is adversely affected.
      Floor Area: For the purposes of determining the area of a building prior
to any proposed alterations, reconstruction or remodeling, the aggregate area
of all stories shall be included.
      Gross Floor Area: The floor area within the perimeter of the outside
walls of the building under consideration, without deduction for hallways,
stairs, closets, thickness of partitions, columns or other features.
      Model Code: The ICC international building code 2018, without amendment
or alteration.
      Reconstruction: See Alteration.
      Remodeling: See Alteration.
   Table 903.1.2 is hereby added as follows:
   Table 903.1.2
   Fire Grading Of Occupancy Types
Occupancy Type Description Fire Grading
Occupancy Type          Description                                Fire Grading
U Utility/Miscellaneous Accessory buildings and structures not     Not rated
                        classified
R-3 Residential         Residential, not group R-1, R-2 or R-4     1
R-4 Residential         Residential care/assisted living           1
IRC                     Single family per the IRC                  1
                        Structures used for outdoor assembly
A-5 Assembly            intended for participating in or reviewing 2
                        activities
B Business              Buildings occupied for the transaction of  2
                        business
                        Structures which accommodate more than
E Educational           five persons for educational purposes      2
                        through the 12th grade
                        Low-hazard factories which involve the
F-2 Factory/industrial  fabrication or manufacturing of            2
                        noncombustible materials
                        Buildings which house six or more persons
                        who must live in a supervised environment,
I-1 Institutional       but are physically capable of responding   2
                        to an emergency situation without
                        assistance
I-2 Institutional       Buildings used for medical/custodial care  2
                        of six or more persons on a 24-hour basis
S-2 Storage             Storage of low-hazard contents             2
A-1 Assembly            All theaters                               3
A-2 Assembly            Places of public assembly without a stage, 3
                        such as nightclubs
                        Buildings with or without an auditorium in
A-3 Assembly            which persons assemble for amusement,      3
                        entertainment or recreation purposes
A-4 Assembly            Buildings and structures occupied          3
                        exclusively for worship
F-1 Factory/industrial  Moderate-hazard factories                  3
I-3 Institutional       Buildings inhabited by six or more persons 3
                        who are under restraint
M Mercantile            Buildings used for display and sales of    3
                        merchandise
R-1 Residential         Hotels, motels and boarding houses         3
R-2 Residential         Multiple family dwellings having more than 3
                        two dwelling units
S-1 Storage             Storage of moderate-hazard contents        3
H-2 High hazard         Buildings which contain materials that     4
                        present a hazard from accelerated burning
                        Building which contain materials that
H-3 High hazard         readily support combustion or present a    4
                        physical hazard
H-4 High hazard         Buildings which contain materials which    4
                        are a health hazard
 
903.3.8 Limited Area Sprinkler Systems
   Section 903.3.8 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      903.3.8 Where Permitted: No limited area sprinkler systems shall be
approved for use in the village of Lake Barrington, except as permitted for
incidental areas in section 509.
   The following sections are hereby added to section 903:
      903.6 Sprinkler Alarms: Approved audio-visual alarm devices shall be
connected to every water sprinkler system. Such alarm devices shall be
activated by water flow and shall be located in an approved location on the
exterior of the building and an additional audio-visual alarm device shall be
installed within the building.
      903.7 Signs: Where sprinkler control valves are located in a separate
room or building, a sign shall be provided on the entrance door. The lettering
for such sign shall conform to section 901.6, shall be at least 4 inches (102
mm) in height and shall read "Sprinkler Control Valves".
   The following sections are hereby added to section 905:
      905.12 Water Supply: A water supply for fire department equipment shall
be available to the building site. The water supply shall be capable of a
minimum flow as required by NFPA 14 for a duration of 30 minutes.
      905.13 Automatic Water Supply: An automatic water supply is required for
all standpipe systems per NFPA 14.
      Exceptions:
      1. In buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with section 906.2.1 where the highest floor is located
not more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) above the lowest level of fire department
vehicle access, the automatic water supply is not required to exceed the
requirements of NFPA 13 listed in chapter 35.
      2. Dry standpipe systems installed in open parking structures.
      905.14 Signs: Where control valves are located in a separate room or
building, a sign shall be provided on the entrance door. The lettering of such
sign shall conform to section 901.6 and shall be at least 4 inches (102 mm) in
height and shall read "Standpipe Control Valves".
   Section 907.1: The following sentence shall be added to the existing
language of Section 907.1:
      Fire protective signaling systems shall be of an approved type and shall
be installed in accordance with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72 listed
in chapter 35.
   A new section 907.1.4 is hereby added, which new section shall read as
follows:
      907.1.4 Where Required: Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed and maintained in full operating condition, as specified in this
code, in all buildings, structures, public garages, and open parking
structures.
      Exceptions:
      1. Private garages with four or less vehicles.
      2. Use group U when approved by the building official and the fire
official.
   Section 912 is hereby amended by the addition of the following new sections:
      912.7 Connections: Fire department connections shall be arranged in such
a manner that the attachment to any one water sprinkler connection will serve
all sprinklers, and the attachment to any one standpipe connection will serve
all standpipes within the building.
      912.8 Height: Fire department connections shall not be less than 18
inches (457 mm) and not more than 42 inches (1067 mm) in elevation, measured
from the ground level to the centerline of the inlets.
      912.9 Projection: Where the fire department connection will otherwise
project beyond the property line or in the public way, a flush-type fire
department connection shall be provided.
   A new section 919, "Yard Hydrants", is hereby added, which new section shall
read as follows:
      Section 919, Yard Hydrants
      919.1 Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants installed on private property shall be
located and installed as directed by the fire department. Hydrants shall
conform to the standards of the administrative authority of the jurisdiction
and the fire department. Hydrants shall not be installed on a water main less
than 6 inches in diameter.
   A new section 920, "Fire Hydrant Spacing", is hereby added, which new
section shall read as follows:
      Section 920 Fire Hydrant Spacing
      920.1 General: Maximum fire hydrant spacing shall not exceed 300 feet
when, as a result of the configuration of lots, distances between buildings and
lot lines or public utility easements, accessibility to buildings or fire
suppression requirements require the same. The fire official shall require
additional hydrants and appropriate water supply mains as are deemed necessary.
   A new section 921, "Water Supply", is hereby added, which new section shall
read as follows:
      Section 921 Water Supply
      921.1 General: Water supply systems shall be made available and
accessible from the time construction begins.
   Chapter 11 - Accessibility
   A new Section 1102.2 is hereby added to Chapter 11, which new section shall
read as follows:
      1102.2 Codes And Standard Conflict(s). Whenever there is a conflict
between this code and the Illinois accessibility code, the more restrictive of
the two shall apply.
   Chapter 16 - Structure Design
   Chapter 16, "Structure Design", is hereby amended as follows:
      Section 1612.3 - Insert "Village of Lake Barrington".
      Section 1612.3 - Insert "September 3, 1997".
   Chapter 35 - Referenced Standards
   Chapter 35, "Referenced Standards", is hereby amended as follows:
      All references to the "international plumbing code" are hereby deleted
from chapter 35, and in lieu thereof, the "Illinois plumbing code" shall be
inserted for each such reference except those in Chapter 15.
      All references to the "international private sewage disposal code" are
hereby deleted from chapter 35.
      All references to the "international wildland-urban interface code" are
hereby deleted from chapter 35.
      Appendix: The following appendices are hereby adopted: C, H105, H106, I,
K.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-3-2: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: That certain printed document entitled the
National Electrical Code 2017 edition, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, Quincy, Massachusetts, a copy of which was on file in
the Office of the Village Clerk for inspection and/or copying by the public for
at least thirty (30) days prior to adoption hereof, be and is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this title as the rules and regulations governing
the installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment and wiring in the
Village; and it shall be unlawful for any person to install or alter, or cause
to be installed or altered, any electrical equipment or wiring in violation of
or without complying with those rules and regulations, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Code are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
Code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, as set
forth below.
   B.   Amendments, Deletions, Additions, Modifications: The following
amendments, deletions, additions and modifications are hereby made to the
National Electrical Code as adopted in subsection A of this section: None.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-3-3: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
That certain printed document entitled Illinois State Plumbing Code, published
by the State of Illinois Department of Public Health, Office of Health
Regulation, 535 West Jefferson Street, Springfield, IL 62761, and available
from said Department Plumbing Code Section, at least one (1) copy of which Code
was on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for inspection and/or copying by
the public for at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption thereof, is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this title as the rules and
regulations governing the construction, installation, alteration or repair of
plumbing in the Village; and it shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install, alter or repair, or cause to be constructed, installed, altered or
repaired, any plumbing in the Village in violation of or without complying with
those rules and regulations, and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Code, are hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this Code. (Ord. 2016-O-3, 2-3-
2016; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-3-4: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: That certain printed document entitled ICC
International Fire Code, 2018, published by the International Code Council,
4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL 60477, a copy of which Code
was on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for inspection and/or copying by
the public at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption thereof, be and is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this title as the rules and
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion in the Village; and it shall be unlawful for any person to violate or
fail to comply with these rules and regulations, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Code are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
Code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, as set
forth in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Amendments, Deletions, Additions: The following amendments, deletions
and modifications are hereby made to the Fire Code adopted in subsection A of
this section:
      101.1 - Insert: "The Village of Lake Barrington".
      103.1 Appointment: It shall be the duty and responsibility of the
building commissioner, or his duly authorized representative, to enforce the
provisions of the fire code as herein set forth. The building commissioner is
herein referred to as the fire official.
      109.3 Fees: Please refer to section 1-10-7 of chapter 10 of title 1 of
the village code.
      111.4 Penalties: Please refer to the penalties as specified in chapter 4
of title 1 of the village code.
   Section 307 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and in lieu thereof, the
following new Section 307 is hereby inserted, which new section shall read as
follows:
      307. Open Burning, Recreational Fires and Portable Outdoor Fireplaces
      307.1 Definitions:
      The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of this section and
as stated elsewhere in this code, have the meanings shown herein:
      Agricultural Fires: Open burning for recognized agricultural or
horticultural management purposes to maintain or increase the quantity or
quality of agricultural or horticultural production.
      Bonfire: An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial or recreational
purposes.
      Conservation Burn: Open burning for recognized silvicultural or range or
wildlife management practices, prevention or control of disease or pests.
      Open Burning: The burning of any materials wherein products of combustion
are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. For the purpose of this definition, a chamber
shall be regarded as enclosed, when, during the time combustion occurs, only
apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air
and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
      Recreational Fire: An outdoor fire utilized to entertain, and/or to cook
food for consumption by, one's family and/or guests.
      307.2 Prohibitions:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow open burning,
unless permitted or approved in accordance with this code.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
any fire so close to a building or structure as to cause danger thereto or
under any other circumstances where there is a danger of the fire spreading; or
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
any fire on any public street or sidewalk or within any right-of-way which has
been dedicated or offered for dedication to the village or other public body at
any time; or
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to build, light, kindle, permit or maintain
any conservation burn or agricultural fire unless a permit has been obtained
and timely notification has been given to neighboring property owners as
required by section 307;
         (a)   Exceptions: Provided, however, nothing contained herein shall be
constructed to prohibit the following:
            (i)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires or in
emergency or other extraordinary circumstances when reasonably necessary in the
judgment of the responsible officer of the applicable fire protection district.
            (ii)   The setting of fires for the purpose of instruction in
methods of fire fighting by the applicable fire protection district.
            (iii)   The burning of fuels in domestic fireplaces provided that
no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
            (iv)   Recreational fires.
            (v)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene
torches, highway safety flares and the like.
            (vi)   Bonfires as defined herein subject to the restrictions
hereinafter provided:
         (a)   Size And Duration: A bonfire shall not be more than 5 feet (1524
mm) by 5 feet (1524 mm) by 5 feet (1524 mm) in dimension and shall not burn
longer than 4 hours and shall be attended as provided in section 307.3.3. The
maximum size and duration of a bonfire shall not be increased by the code
official unless it is determined that fire safety requirements of the situation
and the desirable duration of burn warrant the increase.
         (b)   Material: Fuel for a bonfire shall consist of seasoned dry
firewood and shall be ignited with a small quantity of paper. The fire shall
not be utilized for waste disposal purposes, and the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation of air contaminants.
            (vii)   Agricultural fires pursuant to and in compliance with a
pre-approved permit as hereinafter described.
            (viii)   Conservation burns pursuant to and in compliance with a
pre-approved permit as hereinafter described.
            (ix)   (a)   Effective May 5, 2020, through and including December
31, 2020, the open burning of leaves, brush, sticks, small branches, and/or
other trimmings from trees or bushes, on any property, public or private, owned
or occupied by the person and/or entity conducting such burning, including but
not limited to any conservation burn(s) and bonfire(s) within the Village of
Lake Barrington, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is hereby
temporarily prohibited.
               (b)   Effective January 1, 2021, the open burning of leaves and
small branches on private property owned or occupied by the person conducting
such burning shall be permitted without a permit, but only between October 1
and May 31, inclusive, and only between the hours of 9:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
provided that all applicable requirements of this Section are fully complied
with.
            (x)   Penalties: The property owner and the person conducting such
burning shall be jointly and severally liable for any violation of this
section. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of the village
code shall be subject to such fines and penalties as specified from time to
time in section
1-4-1 of the village code.
      Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (5)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 307 to the
contrary, the open burning of garbage, rubbish, trash, an d/or waste of any
kind is prohibited.
      307.3 Permits Required; Notification Of Neighboring Property Owners
Required:
         (a)   Application: Applications for an open burning permit shall be
submitted in writing at least ten (10) days before the fire is set and shall be
in such form and contain such information as required by the code official.
Such application shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding the purpose
of the proposed burning, the nature and quantities of material to be burned,
the date when such burning will take place, the location of the burning site
and the on-site fire-extinguishing equipment to be provided. Where the
jurisdictional EPA written permission is not applicable, the code official
shall give written permission, provided that approved fire safety requirements
and emission standards will be met.
         (b)   No person shall build, light, kindle, permit or maintain any
conservation burn or agricultural fire as specified in 403.1(a) above or
authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any premises without
having obtained a written permit from a duly authorized representative of the
applicable fire protection district and, where applicable, permit from the
Illinois environmental protection agency. All permits shall be requested by and
issued to the owner of the land upon which the fire is to be kindled and any
violations of the terms of any such permit shall constitute a violation of this
fire prevention code. No such open burning shall be conducted when the wind
velocity exceeds fifteen (15) miles per hour.
         (c)   No person shall build, light, kindle, permit or maintain any
conservation burn or agricultural fire within the village unless all property
owners within five hundred feet (500') of the boundaries of the land on which
the burn shall occur shall have been notified in writing by the permittee, by
first class mail, postage prepaid, and such notices shall be mailed not less
than ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the conservation burn or
agricultural fire. For the purposes of this section, ownership may be
determined on the basis of the last available tax records of Lake County. An
affidavit of compliance with the foregoing notice requirements shall be filed
with the village president not less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to the
time of the conservation burn or agricultural fire. The village president may
inquire into the adequacy of such affidavit and/or the adequacy of the notice
itself. However, the village president may rely on any such affidavit which
appears regular on its face.
         (d)   Where the jurisdictional EPA written permission is not
applicable, the code official shall give written permission, provided that all
other applicable requirements shall be met.
         (e)   Attendance: Any open burning shall be constantly attended until
the fire is extinguished. At least one portable fire extinguisher with a
minimum 4-A rating, two portable fire extinguishers with a minimum 2-A rating
each, or other approved on-site fire extinguishing equipment, such as dirt,
sand, water barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for
immediate utilization.
      307.4 Extinguishment Authority:
      The fire code official is authorized to order the extinguishment by the
permit holder, another person responsible, or the fire department of open
burning that creates or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation.
   Chapter 9 - Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems
      For existing buildings, chapter 9 of the international fire code shall be
applicable;
      For new buildings, chapter 9 of the international building code shall
apply and shall govern to the extent inconsistent with Chapter 9 of the
International Fire Code.
   Chapter 80 - Referenced Standards
   Chapter 80, "Referenced Standards", is hereby amended as follows:
      All references to the "International Plumbing Code" are hereby deleted
from Chapter 80, and in lieu thereof, reference to the "Illinois Plumbing Code"
shall be inserted for each such reference.
      All references to the "International Wildland-Urban Interface Code" are
hereby deleted from Chapter 80.
   Appendix: The following appendix is hereby adopted: C.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2020-O-11, 5-4-
2020)
7-3-5: LIFE SAFETY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
(Rep. by Ord. 99-O-3, 1-5-1999)
7-3-6: ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: That certain printed document entitled the
international residential code for one- and two-family dwellings, 2018 edition
(sometimes referred to in this title as the "IRC"), as published by the
International Code Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL
60477, a copy of which code was on file in the office of the village clerk for
inspection and/or copying by the public for at least thirty (30) days prior to
adoption thereof, be and is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
title as additional rules and regulations governing the fabrication, erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration and repair of one- and two-family
dwellings, their appurtenances and accessory structures, in the village; and it
shall be unlawful for any person to fabricate, erect, construct, enlarge, alter
or repair or cause to be fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged, altered or
repaired any such one- or two-family dwellings, and their appurtenances and
accessory structures, in the village in violation of or without complying with
those rules and regulations. In the event of any conflict between said one- and
two-family dwelling code hereby adopted and any other regulation or other code
adopted in this title or elsewhere in this code, the more restrictive
provisions shall govern.
   B.   Amendments, Deletions, Additions: The following amendments, deletions
and modifications are hereby made to said code:
   Section R105.2 - Work exempt from permit. Subparagraphs or items 1, 2, 4, 5,
9 and 10 of Section R105.2 are hereby deleted from the "Building" part of this
Section.
   The following additions should be inserted into Table R301.2(1), as climatic
and geographic design criteria as shown below:
Ground snow load in pounds per square foot 30
Wind design (speed/miles per hour)         90
Wind design (topographical effects)        n/a
Seismic condition category                 B
Subject to damage from weathering          Severe
Subject to damage from frost line depth    42 inches
Subject to damage from termite             Yes
Winter design temperature                  -4°F
Ice barrier underlayment requirement       Yes
Flood hazard                               See title 10, chapter 1, Watershed
                                           Development of the village code
Air freezing index                         2,000
Mean annual temperature                    48.0
 
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIA
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIA
Elevation                      741
Latitude                       42
Winter heating                 -4
Summer cooling                 88
Altitude correction factor     .98
Indoor design temperature      72
Design temperature cooling     75
Heating temperature difference (72)
Cooling temperature difference 15
Wind velocity heating          15
Wind velocity cooling          7.5
Coincident wet bulb            73
Daily range                    M
Winter humidity                40
Summer humidity                2.25
 
   The last sentence in Section R302.5.1 shall be deleted and the following
shall be added to Section R302.5.1 as the last sentence thereof:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, a 13/4"
solid wood door ("B" labeled fire resistant door) or an equivalent fire
resistant door with a self-closing or automatic-closing device shall be
provided between any residence and garage.
   The provisions of Section R302.6 and Table 302.6 in their entirety is hereby
deleted and the following in lieu thereof as Section R302.6:
      Separation Required. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to
the contrary, the garage shall be completely separated from the residence and
its attic area by means of a 5/8" type "x" fire rated gypsum board or its
equivalent applied to the garage side.
      A new Section R302.15, "Furnace Separation", is hereby added, which new
Section shall read as follows:
   R302.15 Furnace Separation: All furnace(s) shall be separated from the rest
of the structure by 5/8th inch drywall.
      The following is hereby added to Section R303.1:
      Basement Windows: Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the
contrary, all basements shall provide windows for natural light and ventilation
which windows shall be of an area which is not less than 1% of the floor area
of the basement and an escape window meeting the egress requirements of this
Code must be installed in every basement, at a location as remote as practical
from the stairs and other primary egress.
   Section R305.1.1 is hereby deleted and the following is hereby added in lieu
thereof:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, the
average ceiling height in a basement shall not be less than 7'6" to the joists.
   The following paragraph is hereby added to R311.1:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, each
basement must provide a direct access to the exterior at grade level through a
door or window at least 24" wide and 30" high.
   The following sentence is hereby added to Section R402.1:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, wood
foundations or footings are not permitted.
   The following sentence is hereby added to Section R403.1:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, footings
at 10" concrete walls shall be 20" wide and 10" high, and footings at 12"
concrete walls shall be 24" wide and 12" high.
   The following language is hereby added to Section R404.10:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, all
foundation walls shall be poured in place concrete. All foundation walls shall
be 10" thickness minimum. All foundation walls shall be reinforced with 2 #4
reinforcing bars at the top and bottom of wall. 2 #4 bars shall be provided
above and below openings in walls and such bars shall extend 2' beyond
openings. Foundation walls or wing walls shall be provided under entrance
stoop, platforms or steps.
   The following is hereby added to Section R502.7.1:
      R502.7.1 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary:
         a.   Floor joists shall have "x" type or solid bridging at 8'0" on
center maximum.
   The following is hereby added to Section R602.3:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, wood
stud walls shall have double top plates, interlock interior partition top
plates to be exterior, all intersecting partitions and walls shall be
interlocked and splices in top plates shall be offset a minimum of 4' from
splices in plate below.
   The following is hereby added to Section R602.3.4:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, sill
plate on foundation wall shall be shimmed with decay resistant and/or pressure
treated material, set plate on sill seal type insulation and grout tight.
   The following sentence is hereby added to Section R602.4:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, interior
nonbearing partitions shall be constructed of 2" x 4" studs 16" on center.
   The following is hereby added to section R702.3.1:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, gypsum
board shall be ½" minimum thickness on 16" center framing spacing and 5/8"
minimum thickness at 24" on center framing spacing. All interior walls of any
attached garage shall be finished in 5/8" gypsum board or the equivalent.
   The following is hereby added to Section R703.2:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, a
weather-resistant barrier as specified in this Section shall be applied under
all sidings and masonry.
      The following is hereby added to Section R802.5:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary:
         a.   Ceiling joists shall have solid bridging at 8'0" on center
maximum.
      The following is hereby added to Section R803 as Subsection R803.3:
   R803.3 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary:
      a.   Roof plywood shall be ½" minimum thickness, at framing members
spaced 16" on center. A metal support clip shall be placed at midspan of
plywood along the longitudinal edges. Roof plywood shall be 5/8" minimum
thickness on framing members spaced 24" on center. Plywood less than 8" in
width shall have blocks or clips at midspan.
      b.   Ceiling joists shall have solid bridging at 8'0" on center maximum.
      c.   Particleboard roof sheathing shall be ½" minimum thickness on 16"
centers.
   The following sentence is hereby added to Section R807.1:
      Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, attic
access panels shall be located in hallways, walk-in type closets or in rooms
for accessibility.
   The following Chapters are hereby deleted in their entirety:
      Chapters 11, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40,
41, 43.
      Chapter 44 - Referenced Standards
      Chapter 44, "Referenced Standards", is hereby amended as follows:
      All references to the "International Plumbing Code" are hereby deleted
from Chapter 44, and in lieu thereof, in each such case, a reference to the
"Illinois Plumbing Code" is hereby added.
      All references to the "International Private Sewage Disposal Code" are
hereby deleted from Chapter 44.
      All references to the "International Wildland-Urban Interface Code" are
hereby deleted from chapter 44.
      The following Appendices are hereby adopted A, B, C, F, G, H, K.
(Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; amd. Ord. 2022-O-10. 10-4-2022)
7-3-7: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Regulations Adopted: Adopted: That certain printed document entitled
the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition (sometimes referred
to in this Title as the "ISPSC"), as published by the International Code
Council, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL 60477, a copy of
which Code was on file in the office of the Village Clerk for inspection and/or
copying by the public for at least thirty (30) days prior to adoption thereof,
be and is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this title as
additional rules and the minimum requirements for the design, construction,
alteration, repair and maintenance of swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and
aquatic facilities in the Village; and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fabricate, erect, construct, enlarge, alter or repair or cause to be
fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged, altered or repaired any such
swimming pool or spa, in the village in violation of or without complying with
those rules and regulations. In the event of any conflict between said swimming
pool and spa code hereby adopted and any other regulation or other code adopted
in this title or elsewhere in this Code, the more restrictive provisions shall
govern.
      Chapter 2, Definitions, of the ISPSC is hereby amended by adding the
following definitions in alphabetical order:
         Definitions:
         As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
         Pool Area: An outdoor swimming pool (excluding appurtenant equipment)
and the area surrounding it constructed and designed as a lounging area for use
in conjunction with the pool.
         Spa: An outdoor hydromassage pool or tub for recreational or
therapeutic use, designed for immersion of users and usually having a filter,
heater, and motor driven blower. It may be installed on the ground or on a
supporting structure, or in the ground. A spa is intended for recreational
bathing and is capable of containing water over twenty four inches (24") deep
and has a span less than nine feet (9') at all points. Also referred to as a
"hot tub".
          Swimming Pool: An outdoor receptacle for water or an artificial pool
of water intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of
human beings having a depth at any point of two feet (2') or more, whether or
not placed in an excavation. No swimming pool shall extend more than two feet
six inches (2'6") above the pre-existing ground level or more than two feet six
inches (2'6") above the average existing ground level around the perimeter of
the subject swimming pool, whichever elevation is lower. This restriction is
intended to hereafter prohibit the construction and/or installation of any
above-ground swimming pool(s) on any zoning lot or parcel located within the
Village. A swimming pool includes all appurtenant equipment such as, but not
limited to, pumps, filters and disinfectant equipment. Any above-ground
swimming pool(s) which currently exists within the Village as of the effective
date of this Ordinance but which is in excess of two feet six inches (2'6")
above the pre-existing ground level or which is more than two feet six inches
(2'6") above the average existing ground level around the perimeter of the
subject swimming pool may remain on the property of the owner(s) thereof, but
only if such swimming pool was originally installed pursuant to a duly-issued
Village permit, and then only until such swimming pool is in need of any
substantial repair or replacement, at which time such swimming pool shall be
promptly removed from the site and shall not thereafter be replaced."
      Chapter 3 of the ISPSC is hereby amended by adding the following:
      Compliance Required:
      It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install or enlarge any
swimming pool in the village except in compliance with all the provisions of
this appendix. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this appendix, the
following regulations shall apply to all swimming pools constructed or
maintained in the village; provided, however, to the extent such regulations
are inconsistent with the other provisions of this appendix, the more
restrictive requirements shall govern.
      Location:
      No portion of any swimming pool shall be located within twenty-five feet
(25') from any septic tank or any septic field.
      Permit Required; Fees:
      Prior to the construction, installation, enlargement or alteration of any
swimming pool or appurtenances, a permit shall be obtained from the building
commissioner. Drawings and plans shall first be presented to the building
commissioner for examination and approval and each pool shall be constructed in
conformity with the approved plans. The fee for such a swimming pool permit
shall be as established and as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of the village code.
      Inspection:
      The building commissioner may periodically inspect all swimming pools to
determine whether or not the provisions of this Code regarding health,
sanitation and safety applicable hereto are being complied with.
      Construction Specifications, Pool Requirements:
      A.   Recirculation Pools: All swimming pools having a water surface area
of two hundred fifty (250) square feet or more shall be of the recirculation
type in which circulation of the water is maintained through the pool by pumps
and the water drawn from the pool is clarified before being returned to the
pool.
      B.   Walk Area: The pool area shall include an unobstructed walk area not
less than four feet (4') wide immediately next to the swimming pool (excluding
appurtenant equipment) and extending entirely around said swimming pool.
      C.   Steps Or Ladders: At least two (2) or more means of egress in the
form of steps or ladders shall be provided for all swimming pools, one of which
shall be located at the deep end of the pool and one of which shall be located
at the shallow end of the pool. Treads of steps shall be at least six inches
(6") inside for their full length and ladders shall be constructed of nonslip
material and at least three inches (3") wide for their full length. Ladders
shall have a handrail on both sides. In the case of an aboveground pool where
the means of access is a ladder or steps, then the ladder or steps shall be
capable of being secured, locked or removed to prevent access.
      D.   Drainage Of Pools:
         1.   Water drained from the pools shall not be discharged during
periods of rain or storms and shall not be discharged so as to drain across or
onto adjacent property or across or onto a road in such a manner as to cause
damage to any part of the road, including any swale or other drainage
structure.
         2.   No pool shall be drained into any septic system or septic field
or be drained in such manner as to cause such septic system or septic field to
malfunction or to contribute to the malfunction of any such septic system or
septic field.
         3.   All water shall be drained entirely upon the property on which
the swimming pool is located and shall not flow on any adjoining property.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
      E.   Electrical Requirements:
         1.   Compliance Required: All electrical installations provided for,
installed and used in conjunction with private residential swimming pools shall
be in conformance with the provisions of this code regulating electrical
installations.
         2.   Electrical Conductors: No current-carrying electrical conductors
shall cross private residential swimming pools, either overhead or underground
or within fifteen feet (15') of such pools.
         3.   Ground: All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent
to swimming pools which might become electrically alive as a result of contact
with broken overhead conductors or from any other cause shall be effectively
grounded.
         4.   Underwater Light Fixtures: Underwater lighting fixtures shall be
approved for the service.
         5.   Electrical Receptacles: Receptacles shall not be used within
fifteen feet (15') of the pool.
      F.   Safety Precautions:
      Every swimming pool shall be equipped with one or more throwing ring
buoys not more than fifteen inches (15") in diameter.
      G.   Nuisance:
      Pools shall be operated with due consideration to the comfort and well
being of adjoining property owners. Lighting shall be directed so as not to
constitute a nuisance or annoyance to other property owners.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2022-O-09, 8-9-
2022)
7-3-8: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That a certain document, a copy of which is now on file in the office
of the village clerk, being marked and designated as the international property
maintenance code, 2018, as published by the International Code Council, be and
is hereby adopted as the Village of Lake Barrington property maintenance code;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said village property maintenance code are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection
B of this section.
   B.   The following sections of the village property maintenance code are
hereby revised to read as follows:
   Section 101.1 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the "Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of Lake Barrington", hereinafter referred to as
"this code".
   Section 103.5 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in section 7-2-6 of the village of Lake Barrington municipal code.
   Section 111 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      111. Means Of Appeal.
      Application For Appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of the
code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right
to appeal to the board of trustees, provided that a written application for
appeal is filed within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice or
order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the
true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. The decision
of the village with reference to any appeal shall constitute a final
legislative decision.
   Section 112.4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      112.4 Penalties. The penalty for continuing a stop work order shall be
subject to the mandatory daily fines as provided from time to time in Section
1-4-1 of the Village Code, and each day that a violation has existed or
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   Section 302.4 -  Insert six (6) inches.
   Section 304.14 is hereby revised by inserting May 1 to October 1.
   Section 602.3 is hereby amended by inserting "September 1 to May 1".
   Section 602.3 is hereby amended by inserting the following: The minimum
temperature shall be 65° F (18°C.).
   Section 602.4 is hereby amended by inserting: "September 1 to May 1".
   Chapter 8 - Referenced Standards
   Chapter 8, "Referenced Standards", is hereby revised to read as follows:
      All references to the "international zoning code" are hereby deleted from
chapter 8.
      All references to the "international plumbing code" are hereby deleted,
and in lieu thereof, in each case, a reference to the "Illinois plumbing code"
is hereby inserted.
      Appendices: Appendix A is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2024-O-13, 9-3-
2024)
7-3-9: ELEVATOR AND ESCALATOR STANDARDS:
The installation, repair, or modification of elevators, escalators, and other
conveyances after the effective date of this section shall be in accordance
with the following standards, which regulations are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference, and at least three (3) copies of each of said
standards have been on file and available for public inspection and/or copying
in the office of the village clerk for at least thirty (30) days prior to the
adoption hereof:
   A.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2007/CSA B44-07)
and performance based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
   B.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators, and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2004).
   C.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005).
Only upgrades required by application of the safety code for existing elevators
and escalators must be completed no later than January 1, 2015 (see public act
096-0054, section 35(h)). With respect to ASME A17.3-2005, "safety code for
existing elevators and escalators", upgrades required by section 35(h) must be
completed no later than January 1, 2015.
   D.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME A18.1-
2005).
   E.   Standard for the qualification of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2007).
   F.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2006.
   G.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2, 3,
and 4, 2008.
   American Society Of Mechanical Engineers (ASME); Three Park Avenue, New
York, New York
   American Society Of Civil Engineers (ASCE), 1801 Alexander Bell Drive,
Reston, VA 20191-4400
   H.   The following records shall be maintained by the building permit
coordinator of the village:
   1.   Copies of all inspection reports;
   2.   Copies of all permit applications;
   3.   Copies of all permits issued;
   4.   Maintain a record of the number of certificates of operation issued;
and
   5.   Copies of all variances/exceptions issued.
   I.   The owner of all conveyances in the village shall be required to
register with and pay the associated fee to the office of the state fire
marshal ("OSFM") and such conveyances shall be put out of service and the names
of the owners of those conveyances that fail to register shall be reported to
the OSFM within thirty (30) days of determination that the conveyance is not
registered.
   J.   No conveyance covered by this section shall be erected, constructed,
installed, or altered within buildings or structures within this state unless a
permit has been obtained from the village before the work is commenced.
   K.   The village shall keep all permits it issues on file for a period of
not less than two (2) years from the date of issuance. Where any material
alteration is made, the device shall conform to applicable requirements in ASME
A17.1, ASME A18.1, or ASCE 21.
   L.   No permit required under this section shall be issued except to a
person, firm, or corporation holding a current elevator contractor's license,
duly issued pursuant to the elevator safety and regulation act 1  ("the act"),
except that a permit to alter a conveyance may be issued to an entity exempted
from licensure under subsection (a) of section 40 of the act.
   M.   A copy of the permit shall be kept at the construction site at all
times while the work is in progress. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-
O-05, 2-4-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 312.
7-3-10: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That a certain document, a copy of which is now on file in the office
of the village clerk, being marked and designated as the international
mechanical code, 2018, as published by the International Code Council, be and
is hereby adopted as the village of Lake Barrington mechanical code; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
village mechanical code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this code, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   The following sections of the village mechanical code are hereby
revised to read as follows:
   Section 101.1 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the "mechanical code of
the village of Lake Barrington", hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   Section 106.5.2 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      106.5.2 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in section
7-2-6 of the village of Lake Barrington municipal code.
   Section 106.5.3 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   Section 108.4 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      108.4 Penalties. Penalties shall be as specified in chapter 4 of title 1
of the village code.
   Section 108.5 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      108.5 Penalties. The fine for violating a stop work order shall be as
specified in chapter 4 of title 1 of the village code.
   Section 109 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      109. Means Of Appeal.
      109.1 Application For Appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision
of the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the
right to appeal to the board of trustees, provided that a written application
for appeal is filed within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice
or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that
the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. The decision
of the village with reference to any appeal shall constitute a final
legislative decision.
   Chapter 15 - Referenced Standards
   Chapter 15, "Referenced Standards", is hereby amended as follows:
      All references to the "international plumbing code" are hereby deleted
from chapter 15, and in lieu thereof, in each case, a reference to the
"Illinois plumbing code" is hereby inserted.
      Appendix: Appendix A is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-3-11: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That a certain document, a copy of which is now on file in the office
of the village clerk, being marked and designated as the international fuel gas
code, 2018, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the village of Lake Barrington fuel gas code; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said village
fuel gas code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   The following sections of the village fuel gas code are hereby revised
to read as follows:
   Section 101.1 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the "fuel gas code of
the village of Lake Barrington", hereinafter referred to as "this code".
   Section 106.6.2 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      106.6.2 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in section 7-2-6 of the village of Lake Barrington municipal code.
   Section 106.6.3 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   Section 108.4 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      108.4 Penalties. Penalties shall be as specified in chapter 4 of title 1
of the village code.
   Section 108.5 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      108.5 Penalties. The fine for violating a stop work order shall be as
specified in chapter 4 of title 1 of the village code.
   Section 109 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      109. Means Of Appeal.
      109.1 Application For Appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision
of the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the
right to appeal to the board of trustees, provided that a written application
for appeal is filed within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice
or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that
the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. The decision
of the village with reference to any appeal shall constitute a final
legislative decision.
   Chapter 8 - Referenced Standards:
   Chapter 8, "Referenced Standards", is hereby amended as follows:
      All references to the "international plumbing code" are hereby deleted
from the fuel gas code, and in lieu thereof, in each case, the "Illinois
plumbing code" shall be inserted.
      Appendices: Appendices A, B, and C are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011 106.6.2; amd. Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020)
7-3-12: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED:
    A.   The 2021 edition of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code" is hereby
adopted as the "Lake Barrington Energy Conservation Code", a copy of which was
on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for inspection and/or copying by the
public for at least thirty (30) days prior to adoption thereof.
   B.   The following additions and/or amendments to the Lake Barrington Energy
Conservation Code are hereby made, which shall read as follows: NONE. (Ord.
2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; amd. Ord. 2025-O-07, 5-6-2025)
7-3-13: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That a certain document, a copy of which is now on file in the Office
of the Village Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Existing
Building Code, 2018, as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Village of Lake Barrington Existing Building Code; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said Village Existing Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this Code, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   The following sections of the Village Existing Building Code are hereby
revised to read as follows:
   Section 101.1 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the "existing building
code of the village of Lake Barrington", hereinafter referred to as "this
code".
   Section 112 is hereby revised to read as follows:
      112 Means Of Appeal.
      112.1 Application For Appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision
of the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the
right to appeal to the board of trustees, provided that a written application
for appeal is filed within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice
or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that
the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. The decision
of the village with reference to any appeal shall constitute a final
legislative decision.
   Chapter 16 - Referenced Standards:
   Chapter 16, "Referenced Standards", shall be amended as follows:
      All references to the "international plumbing code" are hereby deleted
from chapter 16, and in each case, a reference to the "Illinois plumbing code"
is hereby inserted.
      (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-O-5, 2-4-2020)
7-3-14: RADON MITIGATION:
The provisions of the Illinois Administrative Code, title 32, "Energy", chapter
II, "Illinois Emergency Management Agency", subchapter b, "Radiation
Protection", part 422, "Regulations For Radon Service Providers", as such
provisions presently exist and as may be amended hereafter from time to time,
are hereby adopted as part of this Village Code. The mitigation standards for
the existing housing and new residential housing shall apply to the
installation, maintenance, and/or alteration of all radon remediation systems
within the Village of Lake Barrington. (Ord. 2014-O-11, 6-4-2014; amd. Ord.
2020-O-5, 2-4-2020)
CHAPTER 4
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Findings And Purpose
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: General Principles
7-4-4: Site Development Permit
7-4-5: Operation Standards And Requirements
7-4-6: Enforcement
7-4-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Findings: The board of trustees of the village hereby finds that:
      1.   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain nonagricultural uses including, but not limited to, the
construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants, the
building of roads and highways and the creation of recreational facilities;
      2.   The washing, blowing and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of uses thereof by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
      3.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed
out fills and embankments;
      4.   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes and reservoirs;
      5.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life and is costly and difficult to remove; and
      6.   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways, resulting in
increased chances of flooding at risk to public health and safety.
   B.   Purpose: The board of trustees therefore declares that the purpose of
this chapter is to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the
environment and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the
movement of earth on land situated in the village. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the village for the construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests where required have been performed and that such tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of average end areas.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
the excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions and the United States Of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction or
killing by spraying.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land or a contiguous combination thereof where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the village for the construction or
alteration of ground improvements and structures for the control or erosion,
runoff and grading.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, clearing and storage or removal of topsoil.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2011-O-
07, 4-6-2011)
7-4-3: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and sedimentation
caused by development activities in the village. Measures taken to control
erosion and sedimentation should be adequate to assure that sediment is not
transported from the site by any storm event. The following principles shall
apply to all development activities within the village and to the preparation
of the submissions required under section
7-4-4 of this chapter:
   A.   Potential For Erosion: Development shall be related to the topography
and soils of the site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of
steep slopes where high cuts and fills may be required shall be avoided
wherever possible, in the reasonable opinion of the building commissioner, and
natural contours shall be followed as closely as possible.
   B.   Natural Vegetation: Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected
wherever possible in the reasonable opinion of the building commissioner. Areas
immediately adjacent to natural watercourses shall be left undisturbed whenever
possible.
   C.   Exposure: The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed for the
shortest practical time during development.
   D.   Sediment: Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins or silt
traps or filters shall be installed and maintained to remove sediment from
runoff waters from land undergoing development.
   E.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control Measures: The selection of erosion
and sedimentation control measures shall be based on assessment of the probable
frequency of climatic and other events likely to contribute to erosion and on
evaluation of the risks, costs and benefits involved.
   F.   Aesthetics And Maintenance: In the design of erosion control facilities
and practices, aesthetics and the requirements of continuing maintenance shall
be considered.
   G.   Increased Runoff: Provision shall be made to accommodate the increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Drainageways shall be designed so that their final gradients and
the resultant velocities of discharges will not create additional erosion.
   H.   Permanent Vegetation: Permanent vegetation and structures shall be
installed as soon as practical during development.
   I.   Elevations: The respective elevations of the tops of foundations,
kneewall, retaining walls, stepdowns and similar structures, as well as areas
of excavation and/or fill shall be designed, wherever possible, to conform to
the natural contours and to minimize interference with the natural or existing
drainage patterns. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-4-4: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall commence or perform any grading, stripping, excavating or filling
of land without having first obtained a site development permit from the
building commissioner of the village.
   B.   Agricultural Use Excepted: A permit shall not be required for any
agricultural use of land, including the implementation of conservation measures
included in a farm conservation plan approved by the soil and water
conservation district and the building commissioner and including the
construction of agricultural structures. While a permit shall be required, no
separate fee shall be charged for the repair, renovation or replacement of a
septic system to serve an existing dwelling or structure provided that a septic
permit has been granted by the building commissioner for such work.
   C.   Application For Permit: Application for a site development permit shall
be made by the owner of the property or owner's authorized agent to the
building commissioner on a form furnished for that purpose. Each application
shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site
and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant, together with the name of
the applicant's principal contact at such firm, and shall be accompanied by
such filing fee as required by and as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. Each application shall include certification that any land
clearing, construction or development involving the movement of each shall be
in accordance with the plans approved upon issuance of the permit.
   D.   Submissions: Each application for a site development permit shall be
accompanied by the following information, which information shall be subject to
review and approval by the building commissioner:
      1.   Vicinity Map: A vicinity map in sufficient detail to enable easy
location in the field of the site for which the permit is sought and including
the boundary line and approximate acreage of the site, existing zoning and a
legend and scale.
      2.   Development Plan: A development plan of the site showing:
         a.   Topography: Existing topography of the site and adjacent land
within approximately one hundred feet (100') beyond the boundaries, drawn at no
greater than two foot (2') contour intervals and clearly portraying the
conformation and drainage pattern of the area; provided, however, the building
commissioner may, in the building commissioner's reasonable discretion, require
the existing topography of a more extensive area to be shown.
         b.   Existing Appurtenances: The location of existing buildings,
structures, utilities, water bodies, floodplains, drainage facilities,
vegetative cover, paved areas and other significant natural or manmade features
on the site and adjacent land within approximately one hundred feet (100')
beyond the boundary; provided, however, the building commissioner may, in the
building commissioner's reasonable discretion, require the location of such
features in a more extensive area to be shown.
         c.   Soil Type Description: A general description of the predominant
soil types on the site, their location and their limitations for the proposed
use.
         d.   Proposed Use: Proposed use of the site, including present
development and planned utilization; areas of excavation, grading and filling;
proposed contours, finished grades and street profiles; provisions for storm
drainage, including the control of accelerated runoff, with a drainage area map
and computations; kinds and locations of utilities and areas and acreages
proposed to be paved, covered, sodded or seeded, vegetatively stabilized or
left undisturbed.
         e.   Proposed Elevations: Proposed respective elevations for the top
of any foundation, kneewall, retaining wall and/or stepdowns to be constructed
on the site.
      3.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan: An erosion and sedimentation
control plan showing:
         a.   All erosion and sedimentation control measures necessary to meet
the objectives of this chapter throughout all phases of construction and
permanently after completion of development of the site.
         b.   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures.
         c.   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
         d.   Identification of the person(s) or entity which will have legal
responsibility for maintenance of erosion control structures and measures after
development is completed.
      4.   Proposed Phasing Of Development: The proposed phasing of development
of the site, including stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction,
final grading and landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on
which clearing will begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas,
the sequence of clearing, installation of temporary sediment control measures,
installation of storm drainage, paving streets and parking areas and
establishment of permanent vegetative cover in accordance with the Lake County
Watershed Development Ordinance (the “LCWDO”), as it may be amended from time
to time.
      5.   Standards And Requirements Incorporated: These submissions shall be
prepared in accordance with the standards and requirements contained in the
LCWDO as amended from time to time, which standards and requirements are hereby
incorporated into this Chapter by reference.
      6.   Waiver Of Requirements: The building commissioner may waive specific
requirements for the content of submissions upon finding that the information
submitted is sufficient to show that the work will comply with the objectives
and principles of this chapter.
      7.   Tree Preservation Plan: Each application for a site development
permit shall be accompanied by a tree survey and a tree preservation plan, and
no site development permit shall be approved by the building commissioner
unless a tree preservation plan in compliance with title 11, chapter 1 of this
code has been submitted to and approved in advance by the village
administrator.
   E.   Review And Approval: Each application for a site development permit
shall be reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The building commissioner will review each application for a site
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. The building commissioner may also refer any application to any other
local government or public agency within whose jurisdiction the site is located
for review and comment. Within thirty (30) days after receiving an application,
the building commissioner shall, in writing:
         a.   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and issue the permit;
         b.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter and issue the permit subject to this chapter and issue the permit
subject to these conditions; or
         c.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      2.   No site development permit shall be issued for an intended
development site unless:
         a.   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit development, has been approved by the village where applicable; or
         b.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the village; or
         c.   The proposed earthmoving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the village for the area in which
the site is situated.
   F.   Appeals: The applicant, or any person or agency which is aggrieved by
the decision of the building commissioner under this chapter, may appeal that
decision to the zoning board of appeals. Upon receipt of an appeal, the zoning
board of appeals shall schedule and hold a public hearing as soon as practical
after giving fifteen (15) days' notice thereof. The zoning board of appeals
shall render a recommended decision to the board of trustees within thirty (30)
days after the completion of such hearing. The board of trustees shall, as soon
thereafter as practical, render a decision on said appeal. Factors to be
considered on review shall include, but need not be limited to, the effects of
the proposed development activities on the surface water flow to tributary and
downstream lands, any comprehensive watershed management plans or the use of
any retention facilities; possible saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by
water, both natural and domestic; runoff surface waters that produce erosion
and silting of drainageways; nature and type of soil or rock which when
disturbed by the proposed development activities may create earth movement and
produce slopes that cannot be landscaped and excessive and unnecessary scarring
of the natural landscape through grading or removal of vegetation.
   G.   Retention Of Plans: Plans, specifications and reports for all site
developments shall be retained in original form or on microfilm by the building
commissioner. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021)
7-4-5: OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: All grading, stripping, excavating and filling which is
subject to the permit requirements of this chapter, and any grading, stripping,
excavating and filling which is exempted from the permit requirement by
subsection 7-4-4B of this chapter, shall be subject to the applicable standards
and requirements set forth in this section.
   B.   Responsibility: The permittee shall not be relieved of responsibility
for damage to persons or property otherwise imposed by law, and the village or
its officers or agents will not be made liable for such damage, by:
      1.   The issuance of a permit under this chapter;
      2.   Compliance with the provisions of that permit or with conditions
attached to it by the building commissioner;
      3.   Failure of village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or
unsightly conditions;
      4.   Failure of village officials to recommend denial of or to deny a
permit; or
      5.   Exemptions from the permit requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Handbook Adopted By Reference: The standards and specifications
contained in "Procedures And Standards For Soil Erosion And Sedimentation
Control In Illinois", cited in subsection 7-4-4D of this chapter, are hereby
incorporated into this subsection and made a part hereof by reference for the
purpose of delineating procedures and methods of operation under site
development and erosion and sedimentation control plans approved under section
7-4-4 of this chapter. In the event of conflict between provisions of said
manual and of this chapter, this chapter shall govern.
   D.   Inspection: The building commissioner shall make inspections as
hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the site development or erosion and sedimentation control plan as approved.
Plans for grading, stripping, excavating and filling work bearing the stamp of
approval of the building commissioner shall be maintained at the site during
progress of the work. In order to obtain inspections, the permittee shall
notify the building commissioner at least five (5) working days before the
completion of:
      1.   Stripping and clearing;
      2.   Rough grading;
      3.   Final grading;
      4.   Final landscaping.
If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in phases or
areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the completion
of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an inspection is not
made and notification of the results given within five (5) working days after
notice is received by the village from the permittee, the permittee may
continue work at permittee's own risk, without presuming acceptance by the
village. Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in
writing at the site.
   E.   Special Precautions:
      1.   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the building
commissioner determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, watercourse or drainage structure, the building
commissioner may require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done, that
such reasonable special precautions to be taken as is considered advisable to
avoid the likelihood of such peril. Special precautions may include, but shall
not be limited to, a more level exposed slope, construction of additional
drainage facilities, berms, terracing, compaction or cribbing, installation of
plant materials for erosion control and recommendations of a registered soils
engineer and/or engineering geologist which may be made requirements for
further work.
      2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the building
commissioner may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion or
may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to ensure
completion of protective measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal
rains.
   F.   Amendment Of Plans: Major amendments of the site development or erosion
and sedimentation control plans shall be submitted to the building commissioner
and shall be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the
original plans. Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the
building commissioner by written authorization to the permittee.
   G.   Culvert Required: No excavation, fill or stripping of any lot, parcel
or tract shall be permitted, whether or not a site development permit is
required, unless and until a driveway culvert (or culverts) has been installed
for the driveway to serve the subject property. The design, material, diameter,
length, location and invert elevations of such culvert shall be approved in
advance by the building commissioner.
   H.   Expiration Of Permit: Every site development permit shall expire and
become null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been
commenced within ninety (90) days or is not completed by a date which shall be
specified in the permit; except that the building commissioner may, if the
permittee presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have
prevented work being commenced or completed within the specified time limits,
grant a reasonable extension of time if written application is made before the
expiration date of the permit. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Exceptions: The president and board of trustees may, in accordance with
the following procedures, authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and
regulations set forth in this chapter:
      1.   Application for any exception shall be made by a verified petition
of the applicant for a site development permit, stating fully the grounds of
the petition and the facts relied upon by the applicant. Such petition shall be
filed with the site development permit application and shall be accompanied by
the fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. In order for the petition to be granted, it shall be
necessary that the board of trustees finds all of the following facts with
respect to the land referred to in the petition:
         a.   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record that it
is impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the
requirements of this chapter;
         b.   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
         c.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the subject
property.
      2.   Each application for an exception shall be referred to the building
commissioner for review. The building commissioner shall transmit his or her
recommendations to the zoning board of appeals and to the president and board
of trustees.
      3.   The zoning board of appeals shall hold a public hearing on each
application for exception as soon after receiving such application as possible
in the manner provided with respect to appeals. After public hearing, the
zoning board of appeals may recommend approval of the site development permit
application with the exceptions and conditions it deems necessary or it may
recommend disapproval of such site development permit application and exception
application or it may take such other action as appropriate, including, but not
limited to, recommending conditional approval. The written recommendation to
the zoning board of appeals shall be transmitted to the president and board of
trustees, which shall make a decision thereon as soon thereafter as practical.
   B.   Stop Work Order; Revocation Of Permit: In the event any person holding
a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the
permit or carries on site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working
in the neighborhood of the development site or so as to be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood, the building commissioner may suspend or revoke the site
development permit.
      1.   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work order issued
by the building commissioner and delivered to the permittee or permittee's
agent or the person performing the work. The stop work order shall be effective
immediately, shall state the specific violations cited and shall state the
conditions under which work may be resumed. A stop work order shall remain in
effect until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the president and board of
trustees at which the conditions of subsection B2 of this section can be met.
      2.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the president and board of trustees. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee, either personally or by
registered mail, and shall state:
         a.   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or revocation
in clear and concise language; and
         b.   The time and place where such hearing will be held.
Such notice shall be served on the permittee at least five (5) days prior to
the date set for the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present evidence on
permittee's behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing the president and board of
trustees shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Fine: Any person found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction
of violating any provision of this chapter, of failing to comply with any of
the requirements thereof, of doing any grading, excavating or filling or of
causing any of same to be done in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, in violation of an approved plan or directive of the building
commissioner, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by fine(s) and other
penalties for each offense as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      2.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this chapter or of failing
to comply with any requirement thereof, or of grading, excavating and/or
filling or of causing any of same to be done in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, in violation of an approved plan or directive of
the building commissioner or in violation of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this chapter, shall, in addition to the fine(s) and
other penalties provided, be obligated to reimburse the village for its
attorney fees to the extent permitted by law, court costs, court reporter
costs, expert witness fees and all other out of pocket costs incurred by the
village in the prosecution of the said violation or violations.
      3.   Site Restoration: In addition to any other penalties authorized by
this subsection, any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to restore the site to the condition existing
prior to commission of the violation or to bear the expense of such
restoration. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
CHAPTER 5
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Applicability
7-5-2: Prior Consultation Concerning Affordable Housing Required
7-5-3: Affordable Housing Plan Adopted
7-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter and its sections shall be applicable to the
following types of construction projects that are required to obtain any
permit, special use permit, variation, rezoning, under the provisions of this
code, including under the provisions of the village of Lake Barrington zoning
ordinance:
   A.   Multi-family dwellings, either newly constructed or as part of the
rehabilitation or remodeling of an existing structure where the valuation for
building permit fee purposes under this chapter exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the building's value prior to said remodeling or rehabilitation.
   B.   Commercial buildings that are:
      1.   Newly constructed or as part of the rehabilitation or remodeling of
an existing structure where the valuation for building permit fee purposes
under this chapter exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the building's value prior to
said remodeling or rehabilitation; and
      2.   Located in the M, B or O zoning districts, as defined in the village
of Lake Barrington zoning ordinance, title 8 of this code, as amended.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a construction
project with fifteen percent (15%) or more affordable housing units included in
the project, as proposed. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-5-2: PRIOR CONSULTATION CONCERNING AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIRED:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code or of the model codes
adopted by reference in this code, at least sixty (60) days prior to submitting
to the village any application for any building permit, zoning variation, or
special use permit, rezoning, or plat approval (whether preliminary or final)
required by this code for a construction project identified in section
7-5-1 of this chapter (hereinafter referred to in this chapter as the
"consultation period"), the applicant shall meet with the village administrator
for the purpose of providing the prospective permit applicant with: 1) a copy
of the village of Lake Barrington affordable housing plan, and 2) a copy of the
planned unit development provisions of the village of Lake Barrington zoning
ordinance and related provisions of this code, and discussing with the
prospective applicant whether there are reasonable options for including
affordable housing units in the proposed project.
   B.   After the required meeting described in subsection A of this section,
the village board by resolution may waive any remaining portion of the
aforesaid sixty (60) day consultation period in cases where it determines that
requiring an exhaustion of the consultation period would not serve the purposes
of the plan. (Ord. 2011-O-07, 4-6-2011)
7-5-3: AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN ADOPTED:
The Lake Barrington affordable housing plan in its updated and amended 2015
form (the "2015 Lake Barrington affordable housing plan"), copies of which are
on file with the village clerk, and sometimes referred to in this chapter as
"said plan", and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if fully
set forth verbatim, is hereby adopted and approved, and any prior Lake
Barrington affordable housing plan is hereby superseded, and this chapter and
said plan, in combination with the village's zoning ordinance and the
provisions of this code covering subdivision of land, shall constitute an
exercise of the home rule authority of the village of Lake Barrington on the
subject matter hereof to the maximum extent permitted under the constitution
and laws of the state of Illinois, and shall totally preempt and displace each
and all of the provisions of the affordable housing, planning and appeal act,
public act 93-595, effective January 1, 2004, as amended by public act 93-678,
and as now or hereafter amended (collectively, the "act"), aforesaid, and as
now or hereafter amended. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
pursuant to this home rule ordinance, no land use decision of the village of
Lake Barrington shall be subject to appeal to a state housing appeals board
described in the act, as now or hereafter amended. (Ord. 2015-O-09, 5-5-2015)
TITLE 8
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND LEGAL STATUS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Purpose
8-1-3: Legal Status
8-1-1: TITLE:
This Title is entitled the VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON ZONING ORDINANCE and may
be referred to as the Zoning Title. The zoning map is entitled the VILLAGE OF
LAKE BARRINGTON ZONING MAP and may be referred to as the Zoning Map. An
attested copy of the Zoning Title with the Zoning Map is on file with the
Village Clerk. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the Zoning Title are:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, convenience
and the general welfare;
   B.   To preserve the character of the Village;
   C.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village;
   D.   To ensure that adequate light and air may be secured;
   E.   To provide protection against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, noise,
pollution and other hazards;
   F.   To help create a rational land use pattern and relationships between
residential, commercial, industrial and open space use;
   G.   To prevent harmful encroachment of incompatible uses in living, working
and shopping areas so that the districts designated for each use shall not be
usurped by other inappropriate uses;
   H.   To preserve and improve the ecological balance in the Village;
   I.   To avoid congestion in the public streets by establishing requirements
for off-street loading and parking;
   J.   To prevent congestion by limiting the development of land to the
capacity of the Village to provide satisfactory public services;
   K.   To prevent overcrowding the land with buildings;
   L.   To provide a basis for implementing the land use decisions of the
Village;
   M.   To ensure that the same rules are applied to all new construction in
the Village;
   N.   To establish reasonable zoning standards to which buildings and
structures shall conform;
   O.   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed under this Title;
   P.   To establish and define the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies that administer and enforce this Title;
   Q.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
Title or any amendments to it. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-
7-2021)
8-1-3: LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Conflict With Other Instruments: In case of conflict between any part
of this Title and any other valid legal instrument, the most restrictive
provisions shall apply in every case.
   B.   Validity And Separability: If any provision of this Title is held
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such a
decision shall not affect the validity of any other provision of this Title. It
is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Trustees of the Village
that all provisions of this Title are separable.
   C.   Minimum Requirements And Interpretation: In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals,
convenience and general welfare.
Where the regulations imposed by any provision of this Title upon the use of
land or buildings, the bulk of buildings, lot area requirements or yard
requirements are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
regulations for the same district imposed by any other provision of this Title
or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern.
This Title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or other private
agreement; provided that where the regulations of this Title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this Title shall
govern.
No building, structure or use that is unlawful at the time of the adoption of
this Title shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of
the Ordinance codified in this Title. To the extent that an unlawful building,
structure or use is in conflict with the requirements of this Title, said
building, structure or use remains unlawful.
   D.   Transition Rules: The following rules shall apply for the purpose of
allowing an orderly transition from the prior zoning ordinance of the Village
to the provisions of this Title.
      1.   When a parcel of land is used for a purpose which was a lawful use
on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title and the use is
classified as a permitted use in the district in which it is located by this
Title, such use shall be classified as a lawful permitted use for the purposes
of this Title. However, if such parcel of land or any buildings or structures
on it do not conform with all other requirements of this Title, the continued
use of said parcel and the buildings and structures on it shall be controlled
by the provisions of Chapter 6 of this Title dealing with nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses.
      2.   When a parcel of land is used for a purpose which was a lawful use
on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title and such use is
classified as a special use in the district in which it is located by this
Title, such use shall be classified as a lawful special use for the purposes of
this Title. However, if such lawful use was a special use, and if the permit
granting such special use was subject to one or more conditions, such condition
or conditions shall continue in full force and effect under this Title unless a
new special use permit is obtained in accordance with the provisions of this
Title; and if such parcel of land or any building or structures on it do not
conform with all other requirements of this Title, the continued use of said
parcel and the buildings and structures on it shall be controlled by the
provisions of Chapter 6 of this Title dealing with nonconforming buildings,
structures and uses.
      3.   Any addition or expansion of a lawful special use shall be permitted
only in accordance with the same procedures as those required by this Title for
a new special use and any change in use to a new use other than a permitted use
shall be permitted only if such new use is classified as a special use under
this Title and in accordance with the same procedures as required by this Title
for a new special use.
      4.   When a parcel of land is used for a purpose which was a lawful use
on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title and such purpose
is no longer classified as either a permitted use or a special use in the
district in which it is located by this Title, such use shall be classified as
a nonconforming use and shall be controlled by the provisions of Chapter 6 of
this Title dealing with nonconforming buildings, structures and uses.
      5.   When a building permit for a building or structure has been issued
in accordance with law prior to the effective date of the Ordinance codified in
this Title, and when construction has begun within six (6) months of the
issuance of such permit and is being prosecuted to completion, said building or
structure may be completed in accordance with approved plans on the basis of
which the building permit was issued; and further, may, upon completion, be
occupied under a certificate of occupancy for the use originally designed.
      6.   All variations granted prior to the effective date of the Ordinance
codified in this Title shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-
3-1990)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   B.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number.
   C.   Words used in the plural number shall include the singular number.
   D.   The word shall is mandatory.
   E.   The word may is permissive.
   F.   The word lot shall include the words piece and parcel.
   G.   The word building includes all other structures of every kind
regardless of similarity to buildings.
   H.   The phrase used for shall include the phases arranged for, deigned for,
intended for, maintained for and occupied for.
   I.   All measured distances shall be exact to the nearest foot, rounding up
for fraction of six inches (6") or more and rounding down for fractions less
than six inches (6").
   J.   The word Village shall mean the Village of Lake Barrington, Illinois.
(Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Chapter:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure detached from a principal building on the same
lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or
use.
ACCESSORY USE: A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and
located on the same lot with such principal use. Beehives and apiaries shall be
a permitted accessory use in any R-1, R-2, or R-5 Residential Zoning District
or a permitted use in any Agricultural Overlay Zoning District, but only in
compliance with the terms, conditions and restrictions of
Chapter 3, "Animal Control" , of Title 4, "Police Regulations", of this Village
Code.
ACRE: Forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
ADDITION: A structure added to the original structure after the certificate of
occupancy has been issued for the original structure.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features topless
dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators
or similar entertainers.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATERS: An enclosed building with a capacity for
less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting materials distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
ADULT STORE: An establishment having as any portion of its stock and trade, for
sale, for rent and/or for exhibition on or off the premises, books, magazines,
periodicals, photographs, films, videos, other forms of recording or media,
paraphernalia and/or other products which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; provided, however, that in the event
such items do not exceed ten percent (10%) of the retail space in such
establishment and are visually and spatially separated from the main part of
the retail space open to the general public, then such use shall be considered
an accessory use to the principal retail use of the establishment.
ADULT USE CANNABIS: Cannabis which is sold, purchased, possessed, and used in
compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
ADULT USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, dispensing organization, and/or transporting
organization as those terms are defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
as said Act may be amended from time to time, and which are or may be licensed
and/or otherwise regulated pursuant to said Act.
ADULT USE CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or business that
is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture pursuant to the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis
and perform other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a
dispensing organization or use at a processing organization.
ADULT USE CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to cultivate, process,
transport (unless otherwise limited by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act),
and perform other necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused
products to cannabis business establishments as defined in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, as said Act may be amended from time to time.
ADULT USE DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to
acquire cannabis from a cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, or another dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related
supplies as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as said Act may be
amended from time to time.
ADULT USE INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department
of Agriculture pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to directly
incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
produce a cannabis-infused product.
ADULT USE PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department
of Agriculture pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to either
extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or
incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
produce a cannabis product.
ADULT USE TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or business
that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture pursuant
to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to transport cannabis on behalf of an
adult use cannabis business establishment or a community college that is or may
be licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
Program pursuant to said Act.
ADVERTISING DISPLAY AREA: The surface area encompassed within any regular
geometric figure which would enclose all parts of the sign not including
structural supports.
AGRICULTURAL LAND: A tract of ten (10) acres or more not composed of
subdivision lots and used for purposes of agriculture.
AGRICULTURE: The production, keeping or maintenance for sale, lease or personal
use of plants and animals useful to humans, including, but not limited to:
forages and sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy products;
poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine,
horses, ponies, mules or goats, or any mutations or hybrids thereof, including
the breeding and grazing of any or all of such animals; bees and apiary
products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds,
including grapes, nuts and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental and
greenhouse products or lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry
management programs.
ALLEY: A public right of way primarily designed to serve as a secondary means
of vehicular access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
ALTERATION: Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior
partitions, as well as any change in doors or windows, or any enlargement to or
diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or
the moving of a building or structure from one location to another.
ANIMAL USES, NONVETERINARY: Uses related to nonveterinary dog and/or cat care,
including, but not limited to, dog and/or cat kennels, dog and/or cat daycare
or day boarding, and dog and/or cat training.
APIARY: A place where bees are collected, consisting of one or more beehives.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT: The application form and all accompanying
documents and exhibits required of an applicant for development review
purposes.
APPLICATIONS: This term shall mean the following:
   A.   Petitions for annexation to the village;
   B.   Petitions for special use permits and for zoning or rezoning of
property within the village;
   C.   Applications for building and/or grading permits on property within the
village; and
   D.   Applications for approval of plats of subdivision or planned
developments on property within the village or the unincorporated area of Lake
County within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the planning boundaries of the
village.
APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material more than five one-hundredths inch
(0.05") thick which burns at a rate of not more than two and five-tenths inches
(2.5") per minute when subjected to the American Society for Testing Materials
test for flammability in sheets of six one-hundredths inch (0.06") thick.
ARMORING: A form of channel modification which involves the placement of
materials (concrete, riprap, bulkheads, etc.) within a stream channel or along
a shoreline to protect property above streams, lakes and ponds from erosion and
wave damage caused by wave action and stream flow.
AWNING: A structure with a frame attached to a building and projecting from the
building capable of being raised or retracted to a position against the
building when not in use.
AWNING SIGN: A sign attached to, painted on or incorporated in any awning,
canopy or marquee.
BANNER: A temporary sign consisting of a piece of fabric or other flexible
material attached to two (2) or more pole(s) or staff(s) or line(s).
BASEMENT: A space having one-half (1/2) or more of its floor to ceiling height
below the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor to ceiling
height of not less than six and one-half feet (61/2').
BEACON LIGHT: Any light with one or more beams capable of being directed in any
direction or directions or capable of being revolved automatically.
BEDROOM: A private room planned and intended for sleeping separable from other
rooms by a door and accessible to a bathroom without crossing another bedroom
or living room.
BENCH SIGN: A sign located on any part of the surface of a bench or seat placed
on or adjacent to a public right-of-way.
BERM: A mound or bank of earth or soil and/or a combination of earth or soil
and other approved fill, whether existing naturally as part of the topography
of a lot or parcel or intentionally constructed or created, and usually used as
a barrier to control surface water runoff, and/or as a barrier to provide
visual screening or sound attenuation.
BILLBOARD: Any sign, whether temporary or permanent, erected on private
property or attached to any building on private property which relates to a
business, profession, occupation, service, building, activity, or use not
conducted or offered on the premises to which such sign is annexed or attached.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Lake
Barrington, Illinois.
BOARDER: An individual other than a member of the family occupying the dwelling
unit or part thereof who, for a consideration, is furnished sleeping
accommodations and may be furnished meals or other services as part of the
consideration.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling or part thereof in which lodging is provided by the
owner or operator to more than three (3) boarders.
BOARDING STABLE: A structure designed for the feeding, housing and exercising
of horses not owned by the owner of the premises.
BUFFER STRIP: Land area used to visibly separate one use from another or to
shield or block noise, light or other nuisances.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yards, open
space, easements and flood plain requirements have been met.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally above ground and is covered by a
roof. The term includes any structure intended for the shelter, housing or
enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods or materials of
any kind. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured home
or a prefabricated building. This term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers to be installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The Building Commissioner of the Village.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance of a building measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade within twenty feet (20') of the structure to
the highest point of the roof, excluding penthouses, containing mechanical
equipment such as air conditioning or elevator equipment and church spires,
water towers and radio antennas.
BULK STORAGE: The storage of chemicals, petroleum products and other materials
in aboveground containers.
BULKHEAD: A retaining wall that protects property along water.
CANNABIS REGULATION AND TAX ACT: Illinois Public Act 101-027, as may be amended
from time to time.
CANOPY: Any structure, other than an awning, made of cloth, metal or other
material with frames attached to a building and carried by a frame supported by
the ground or sidewalk.
CAR SIGN: An advertising or business sign attached to an operable or inoperable
motor vehicle, van, or trailer which is parked or placed, in position where it
is displayed to the public.
CARPORT: A roofed structure providing space for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles and enclosed on not more than three (3) sides.
CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT: An establishment which by design of physical facilities
or by service or packaging procedures permits or encourages the purchase of
prepared ready-to-eat foods intended primarily to be consumed off the premises.
CHANGE OF USE: Any use which substantially differs from the previous use of a
building or land.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign that is designed so that characters, letters or
illustrations can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or the
surface of the sign.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A private establishment enrolling four (4) or more children
between two (2) and five (5) years of age and where tuition, fees or other
forms of compensation for the care of the children is charged and which is
licensed or approved to operate as a childcare center.
CHURCH: A building or structure, or groups of buildings or structures, which by
design and construction are primarily intended for the conducting of organized
religious services and associated accessory uses.
CLINIC: An establishment where patients are admitted for examination and
treatment by one or more physicians, dentists, psychologists or social workers
and where patients are not lodged overnight.
COMMISSION: The plan commission of the village.
COMPASSIONATE USE ACT: The compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program
act, public act 98-0122 in force beginning January 1, 2014, or as said act may
hereafter be amended from time to time.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official comprehensive plan of Lake Barrington,
Illinois, and environs, being the official plan of the municipality, as adopted
and amended.
CONDITIONS: The provisions, restrictions and limitations imposed upon a
building, structure or parcel of land at the time the board of trustees grants
a variation, amendment or special use.
CONDOMINIUM: A building, or group of buildings, in which units are owned
individually and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: Any sign giving the name or names of principal contractors,
architects and lending institutions responsible for construction on the site
where the sign is placed together with other information.
COUNTRYSIDE UNIT: A parcel of land meeting the requirements set forth for the
countryside overlay zoning district.
CULVERT: A structure designed to carry drainage water or small streams below
barriers such as roads, driveways or railway embankments.
DECIBEL: A logarithmic unit of measurement which defines the range of sound
pressure levels (Lp) between the minimum audible value at one thousand (1,000)
cps and the maximum audible value of Lp, at which effects other than hearing
begin to appear.
DENSITY: The number of families, individuals or structures per unit of land.
DEVELOPMENT: The carrying out of any building, agricultural or mining operation
or the making of any change in the use or appearance of land and the dividing
of land into two (2) or more parcels. The following activities or uses shall be
taken, for the purposes of this Title, to involve development:
   A.   Any construction, reconstruction or alteration of a structure to occupy
more or less ground area or the on-site preparation for same;
   B.   Any change in the intensity of use of land, such as an increase in the
number of dwelling units on land or a material increase in the site coverage of
businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices and dwelling units, including
mobile homes, campers and recreational vehicles, on land;
   C.   Any agricultural use of land including, but not limited to, the use of
land in horticulture, floriculture, forestry, dairy, livestock, poultry,
beekeeping, pisciculture and all forms of farm products and farm production;
   D.   The commencement of drilling, except to obtain soil samples, or the
commencement of mining, filling, excavation, dredging, grading or other
alterations of the topography;
   E.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site;
   F.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction for agricultural,
private residential, commercial or industrial use;
   G.   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste, or fill on a parcel of land,
or the storage of materials;
   H.   Construction, excavation or fill operations relating to the creation or
modification of any road, street, parking facility or any drainage canal or to
the installation of utilities or any other grading activity that alters the
existing topography;
   I.   Construction or erection of dams, levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts; and
   J.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or velocity
of flood or surface waters.
Development does not include maintenance of existing building and facilities
such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in grade,
or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading or construction of levees.
DIGITAL SIGNS OR DIGITAL DISPLAY: A sign or display that includes a lit
electronic presentation in the form of characters such as numbers, letters, and
graphics, including, but not limited to, cathode ray tube, LED, LCD, neon,
plasma, and similar signs or displays.
DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign on which the names and locations of occupants or the use
of a building is given. This shall include office buildings and church
directories.
DISTRICT: A part, zone or geographic area within the Village within which
certain zoning or development regulations apply.
DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINE: A line which marks the separation between two (2)
zoning districts.
DRAINAGE: A. Surface water runoff; or
   B.   The removal of surface water or ground water from land by drains,
grading or other means which include runoff controls to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development, the means for
preserving the water supply and the prevention or alleviation of flooding.
DRUG STORE: A store where the primary business is the filling of medical
prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies and
nonprescription medicines but where nonmedical products are sold as well.
DUMP: A land site used primarily for the disposal by dumping, burial, burning
or other means and for whatever purpose of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse,
junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts thereof and other waste, scrap or
discarded material of any kind.
DWELLING: A structure or portion thereof which is used exclusively for human
habitation. Where a private garage is structurally attached, it shall be
considered as a part of the building in which the dwelling is located.
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that is used to certify the elevation to which a building has been
elevated.
EMINENT DOMAIN: The authority of a government to take or to authorize the
taking of private property for public use.
ENCROACHMENT: Any obstruction in a delineated floodway, right-of-way or
adjacent land.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The person appointed by the Village Board of Trustees to
enforce this title.
ENVIRONMENTALLY-SENSITIVE AREA: An area with one or more of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Slopes in excess of fifteen percent (15%);
   B.   Floodplain;
   C.   Soils with a high water table;
   D.   Land incapable of meeting percolation requirements;
   E.   Land formerly used for landfill operations or hazardous industrial use;
   F.   Fault areas;
   G.   Stream corridors;
   H.   Estuaries;
   I.   Mature stands of native vegetation; or
   J.   Aquifer recharge and discharge areas.
EQUINE: One horse, pony, mule or ass.
ERECT: For the purposes of the sign regulations, to build, construct, attach,
hang, place, suspend or affix. Also includes the painting of wall signs.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of
underground, surface or overhead electrical, gas, steam, water and sewerage
transmission and collection systems and the equipment and appurtenances
necessary for such systems to furnish an adequate level of public service.
EXEMPT SIGN: A sign not requiring a permit or a fee pursuant to this title. All
other signs are "non-exempt".
EXISTING USE: The use of a lot or structure at the time of the enactment of the
ordinance codified in this title.
FACADE: The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view or that wall
viewed by persons not within the building.
FACTORY: A building in which semifinished or finished materials are converted
to a different form or state or where goods are manufactured, assembled,
treated or processed.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit within a dwelling
unit including foster children and domestic servants. Family shall also include
two (2) unrelated persons.
FARMING: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including agriculture,
floriculture, forestry, grazing of dairy animals, greenhouses, hatcheries,
horticulture, nurseries, orchards, paddocks, truck farming, viticulture and
raising of furbearing animals and poultry.
FENCE: An artificially constructed structure on or above the ground surface
which acts as or is designed or intended to act as a barrier and/or as a
screen, and consists of any material or combination of materials, including,
but not limited to, those structures erected to enclose, separate and/or screen
areas of land. The term "fence" also includes, but is not limited to, solid
freestanding structures such as screens and walls.
FILTERED VIEW: The maintenance or establishment of woody vegetation of
sufficient density to screen developments from a stream or wetland, to provide
for stream bank stabilization and erosion control, to serve as an aid to
infiltration of surface runoff and to provide cover to shade the water. The
vegetation need not be so dense as to completely block the view. Filtered view
means no clear cutting.
FINISH ELEVATION: The proposed elevation of the land surface of a site after
completion of all site preparation work.
FLAG: A sign printed on and/or made of fabric or other flexible material which
is mounted and flown on a single pole.
FLASHING SIGN: Any illuminated sign and/or flashing light where each artificial
light unit is not maintained in a stationary condition or where all light units
are not constant in intensity and/or color at all times when such sign is
illuminated. Illuminated signs which indicate the time and/or temperature shall
not, for that reason alone, be considered flashing signs.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, the unusual and
rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equalled or exceeded.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or structure measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
The floor area of a building or structure shall include: basement floor area,
elevator shafts, stairwells, floor space used for mechanical equipment (except
equipment open or enclosed located on the roof), penthouses, attic space having
headroom of seven feet (7') or more, interior balconies and mezzanines,
enclosed porches, floor area devoted to accessory uses, accessory storage areas
located within selling or working space such as counter, racks or closets and
space devoted to retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods
or to business or professional offices. The term floor area shall not include
any space devoted to off street parking or loading.
The floor area of structures devoted to bulk storage of materials, including,
but not limited to, grain elevators and petroleum storage tanks shall be
determined on the basis of height in feet, i.e., one foot (1') in height shall
equal ten (10) square feet of floor area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The gross floor area of all buildings on a lot divided by the
lot area.
FOREST: Areas or stands of trees the majority of which are greater than twelve
inches (12") caliper measured four feet (4') above grade, covering an area
greater than one-fourth (1/4) acre or groves of mature trees without regard to
minimum area consisting of more than ten (10) individual specimens.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any mobile or portable sign or sign structure not securely
attached to the ground or to any other structure. This shall not include car
signs as defined herein.
FREQUENCY: Signifies the number of oscillations per second in a sound wave and
is an index of the pitch of the resulting sound.
FRONTAGE: The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract of
land abutting a public street, road, highway or rural right of way.
FUNERAL HOME: A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial
and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected with before burial or
cremation.
GARAGE: A fully enclosed accessory building or structure, or part thereof, used
or intended to be used for the parking and storage of private passenger
vehicles.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM:    A system which utilizes renewable energy generated
from the interior of the Earth and used to produce energy for heating buildings
or serving building commercial or industrial processes. A Geothermal Energy
System does not include systems that use energy independent of the geothermal
source to raise the temperature of the extracted heat, such as heat pumps.
GRADE: The degree of rise or descent of a sloping surface.
GRADE, EXISTING: The existing grade shall be the elevation of the ground
surface as measured at a particular location on a lot or parcel prior to any
work on or disturbance of the land comprising such lot or parcel, including the
disturbance or removal of any existing trees thereon, and without regard to any
regrading or other changes in the topography of said lot or parcel done within
thirty six (36) months prior to any application being filed for any work to be
performed on such lot or parcel.
GROUND OR POLE SIGN: Any sign which is supported by structures or supports in
or upon the ground and independent of support from any building. This shall not
include "billboard" signs as defined herein.
HABITABLE ROOM: Any room in a dwelling unit other than a bathroom, closet,
pantry, hallway, storage space, garage and basement.
HEALTH AND FITNESS: See definition of Recreation, Indoor.
HEALTHCARE FACILITIES: Any hospital, general hospital, communicable disease
hospital, school or home for the mentally disturbed or retarded, school or home
for the physically handicapped, nursing home or shelter care home.
HEIGHT, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Height of a building or structure is the
vertical distance from the sidewalk level or its equivalent established grade
opposite the center of the front of a building or structure to the highest
point of the coping in the case of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard
roof and to the mean level of the underside of the rafters between the eaves
and the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof. Where no sidewalk level has been
established, the height of a building or structure may be measured from the
mean elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building or
structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any activity carried out for gain by a resident conducted as
an accessory use in the resident's dwelling unit. In general, a home occupation
is an accessory use so located and conducted that the average neighbor, under
normal circumstances, would not be aware of its existence.
HOSPITAL: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of
facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and overnight care of three (3) or more
nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or
other abnormal physical, mental or emotional conditions or afflictions.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light
source.
IMPERMEABLE: Not permitting the passage of water.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surfaced, manmade area that does not readily
absorb or retain water, including, but not limited to, building roofs, parking
and driveway areas, graveled areas, sidewalks and paved recreation areas.
IMPROVEMENT: Any humanmade, immovable item which becomes part of, placed upon
or is affixed to real estate.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A system for the disposal of sanitary sewage
in the ground which is so designed and constructed as to treat sewage in a
manner that will retain most of the settleable solids in a septic tank and
discharge the liquid portion to an adequate disposal field.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual industrial uses
with special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics and
compatibility.
INTEGRAL SIGN: Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or
other incombustible materials mounted on the face of a building.
KENNEL: The definition of "kennel" shall be as defined from time to time in
section
4-3-1, "Definitions", of this Code.
LAKE OR POND: Any inland body of water fed by spring or surface water flow.
LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to generate utility power at a commercial scale.
LOT: A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit and having its principal frontage on a street.
LOT AREA: The horizontal area bounded by the front, side and rear lot lines
measured within the lot boundaries, excluding public rights of way.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets.
LOT COVERAGE: That portion of the land that is covered by buildings, structures
and all other humanmade improvements on the ground surface which are more
impervious than the natural surface, such as paving, driveways, etc.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance measured from the front lot line to the
rear lot line within the lot boundaries.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF: The smallest lot area established by this title on which
a use or structure may be located in a particular district.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured parallel to the front lot line at the required front setback line,
unless otherwise specified in these zoning regulations or in this code.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
manufactured homes also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. For the purposes of this title, a manufactured home shall not
be considered a single-family detached dwelling.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARQUEE: Any hood or awning of permanent construction projecting from the wall
of a building but not supported by the ground or sidewalk.
MASSAGE: The performance of manipulative exercises upon the human body of
another by rubbing, kneading, stroking or tapping with the hand or hands, or
with any mechanical or bathing device with or without supplementary aids.
MASSAGE PARLOR: Any place or establishment where a massage is made available.
MASSAGE SCHOOL: Any place or establishment or facility which provides
instructions in the theory, method and practice of massage.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A "cultivation center" as defined in the
compassionate use act.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A "medical cannabis dispensing
organization" as defined in the compassionate use act.
MICRON: A unit of length equal to one-thousandth (0.001) part of one millimeter
(1 mm).
MINIMUM HABITABLE FLOOR AREA: The total floor area of all the habitable rooms
in a dwelling unit.
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT: The development of a tract of land or building or
structure with two (2) or more different uses such as, but not limited to,
residential, office, manufacturing, retail, public or entertainment in a
compact form.
MONUMENT SIGN: A permanent ground sign.
MOVING SIGN: Any sign that has an external or visible part or parts that move,
rotate or spin. Signs which indicate the time and/or temperature shall not for
that reason alone be considered moving signs.
MUNICIPAL SIGN: Any sign located on public property and/or within any public
right-of-way which has been approved by the public body owning or having
maintenance jurisdiction over such location, including, but not limited to:
traffic-control signs, traffic signals and devices; legal notices,
identification signs for public buildings, or departments, divisions, services,
or structures of a public body; any informational, directional, or warning
sign; any warning sign or regulatory sign required by Federal or State law or
local ordinance; railroad crossing signs; temporary emergency signs; and such
other signs as may be approved by the Governing Body or executive authority of
the public body owning or having maintenance jurisdiction over such location,
which are determined by such public body to serve a public purpose.
NAMEPLATE: Any sign which states the name or address or both of the business or
occupancy of the lot where the sign is placed.
NET METERING: An arrangement by which excess energy generated by a Renewable
Energy System is distributed back to the electrical utility grid.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot, the area, dimensions or location of which was lawful
prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the ordinance codified in this
title but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment to
conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which does not conform to the regulations of
chapter 9 of this title.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING: A structure or building the size,
dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or
amendment of the ordinance codified in this title, but which fails by reason of
such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present requirements of
the zoning district.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use or activity which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment to the ordinance codified in this title but which fails
by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning district.
NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD88): The current vertical datum for
orthometric heights established for vertical control surveying for the
contiguous United States of America.
NUISANCE: An interference with the enjoyment and use of property.
NUISANCE ELEMENT: Any environmental pollutant, such as smoke, odors, liquid
wastes, solid wastes, hazardous wastes, radiation, noise, vibration, glare or
heat.
OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, soil
material, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, refuse, fill,
structure or other matter in, along, across or projecting into any channel,
watercourse or flood plain which may impede, retard or change the direction of
the flow of water, either in itself or by catching debris carried by such water
or that is placed where the flow of water might carry the same downstream.
OCCUPANCY: The residing of an individual or individuals overnight in a dwelling
unit or the installation, storage or use of equipment, merchandise or machinery
in any public, commercial or industrial building.
OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in
order to classify sound according to pitch.
ODOR THRESHOLD: The minimum concentration of odorous matter in the air that can
be detected as an odor.
OFF-SITE SIGN: See definition of "billboard".
OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE OR LOADING BERTH: An open, hard- surfaced area of
land, other than a right-of-way, an access, a driveway or an aisle and the
principal use of which is for the standing, loading and unloading of motor
vehicles.
OFFICE BUILDING: A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government, or like activity, that
may include ancillary services for office workers such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand.
OPACITY: The quality or state of an object that renders it impervious to the
rays of light, the degree of nontransparency.
OPEN SPACE: Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and set
aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment
or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or
neighboring such open space.
OPEN SPACE, COMMON: Land within or related to a development, neither
individually owned nor dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and may
include such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations
or any other legal entity holding title of land covered by this title.
PARKING LOT ACCESSORY: An open, hard surfaced area other than a right-of-way
which is accessory to the principal use of the lot and which is intended and
used for the storage of private motor vehicles owned by members of the family
or families residing upon the premises or by the owners, employees or patrons
of the business or industrial uses.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid such as dust.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criteria established to control noise, odor, glare,
exterior lighting, vibration, smoke, particulate matter, gases, fire and
explosion hazards and wastes generated by or inherent in uses of buildings,
structures or land.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign other than a temporary sign.
PERMITTED USE: Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, trust, corporation, association or
organization, singular or plural, of any kind.
PLAN COMMISSION: The Plan Commission of the Village of Lake Barrington,
Illinois.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: The development of a parcel of land having a
previously approved overall plan according to the rules and regulations
stipulated in the Planned Unit Development Regulations of the Village of Lake
Barrington, as adopted or amended 1 .
POINT-OF-SALE SIGN: Any sign which carries only the name of the firm, major
enterprise or products offered for sale on the premises, or a combination of
these things.
POLE BUILDINGS: Any building construction which includes the use of the same
poles buried in the ground to both provide foundation for the building as well
as to provide the exterior frame of the building.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign designed to be moved from place to place.
PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT: Any container, whether or not consisting of a trailer,
semitrailer, or any other container, whether or not equipped with wheels or
rollers, which is designed, intended for use for storage, and/or used for
storage.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign other than a wall sign affixed to any building or
wall whose leading edge extends beyond such building or wall.
PUBLIC DOMAIN: All lands owned by government.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A closely regulated private enterprise with an exclusive
franchise for providing a public service.
PUBLICLY NAVIGABLE WATERS: All streams and lakes capable of being navigated by
watercraft.
PYLON SIGN: Any advertising sign or structure so designed and constructed that
it forms an integral part of the building and is not merely affixed or
attached.
RATABLE PROPERTY: Real property subject to tax by a municipality or other
taxing district.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: Any sign which is used to offer for sale, lease or rent the
property upon which the sign is placed.
RECREATION FACILITY: A place designed and equipped for the conduct of sports,
leisure time activities and other customary and usual recreational activities.
RECREATION, INDOOR: Public or private recreation facilities, health and fitness
facilities, tennis or other racquet courts, indoor golf driving ranges, indoor
baseball facilities, swimming pools, bowling alleys, bocce ball, skating rinks,
billiard halls, or similar uses which are enclosed in buildings and which may
or may not be operated on a membership basis. "Recreation, indoor" shall
include any accessory uses, such as snack bars, pro shops, tanning and sauna
facilities, and locker rooms, which are designed and intended primarily for the
use of patrons of the principal recreational use, but shall not include
theaters, cultural facilities, commercial amusement centers, or massage
parlors.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the State of Illinois,
under the Illinois Professional Land Surveyor Act of 1989 2 .
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PE): An engineer registered in the State of
Illinois, under the Professional Engineering Practice Act of 1989 2 .
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that generates energy from natural resources
such as sunlight, wind, and geothermal heat. As used herein, the term
"Renewable Energy System" refers to Large Wind Energy Systems, Small Wind
Energy Systems, Geothermal Energy Systems, and Solar Energy Systems only.
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Construction activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of residential land.
RESTAURANT: Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order cafe, luncheonette,
tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, sandwich stand, drive-in or drive-through
restaurant, fast food restaurant, outdoor cafe, soda fountain and any other
eating and/or drinking establishment, organization, club, whether public or
private, or a temporary or movable structure or vehicle, from which is given,
sold or offered for sale, food to the public, guests, employees or patrons, as
well as kitchens or other places in which food or drink is prepared for sale
elsewhere or kitchens or other places in which, for a fee, food or drink is
prepared for consumption off the premises including catering functions.
RESTRICTION: A limitation on property which may be created in a property deed,
lease or mortgage through certain zoning or subdivision regulations or as a
condition of approval of an application for development.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
REZONE: To change the zoning classification of particular lots or parcels of
land.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, prescription
or condemnation and intended to be occupied or occupied by a road, crosswalk,
railroad, transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm
sewer, trail, bicycle path and other similar uses.
RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES: The lines that form the boundary of a right of way.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines
Information Circular 8333 and on which are illustrated graduated shades of gray
for use in estimating the light-obscuring capacity of smoke and smoke density.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of emission or the light
obscuring capacity of the smoke.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected or constructed wholly upon and over the roof of any
building and supported solely on the roof structure.
SATELLITE ANTENNA, PRIVATE: Any accessory structure capable of receiving, for
the sole benefit of the principal land use, radio, television or data microwave
signals from a transmitter or a transmitter relay located in earth orbit. This
definition includes, but is not limited to, satellite receivers, satellite dish
antennas, satellite discs, direct broadcast systems and television reception
only systems.
SCHOOL: Any building or part thereof which is designed, constructed or used for
educational or instruction in any branch of knowledge.
SETBACK: The required minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and a
building, structure, parking area, driveway or accessory building.
SHELTERED CARE: Maintenance and personal care, exclusive of nursing, for
persons incapable of maintaining a private independent residence.
SHELTERED CARE HOME: A private boarding home, institution, building, residence
or other place, which, through its ownership or management provides sheltered
care to three (3) or more adults who are not related to the applicant or owner
by blood or marriage.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to reduce on-site consumption of utility power. All
small wind energy systems, whether ground-mounted or building-mounted, are
prohibited in all of the Village's zoning districts, except within the B, O,
and M Zoning Districts where each shall require specific authorization by a
special use permit approved by Village ordinance.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-MOUNTED : A Small Wind Energy System affixed
to a building or other principal structure.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED: A Small Wind Energy System that is
not attached to another structure and is affixed to the ground, or that is
attached to an antenna, light pole or other utility facility.
SMOKE: The visible discharge from a chimney, stack, vent, exhaust or combustion
process which consists of particulate matter.
SMOKE UNIT: The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann number is
multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation. Each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it was observed. The various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the entire
observation period.
SOLID WASTE: Unwanted or discarded material including garbage with insufficient
liquid content to be free flowing.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL: The ultimate disposition of solid waste that cannot be
salvaged or recycled.
SPECIAL DISTRICT: A district created by act, petition or vote of the residents
for a specific purpose with the power to levy taxes.
SPECIAL FARM USE: Commercial game animals farm, including, but not limited to,
mink or other furbearing animal ranches, commercial mushroom production barn
and commercial piggery.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Less than completely and opaquely covered: human
genitals, pubic region; buttock; female breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola; and human male genitals in a discernible turgid state
even if completely and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; fondling or
other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions, buttock or female
breast.
STABLE, COMMERCIAL: A building or land where equine are kept for remuneration,
hire, sale, boarding, riding or show.
STABLE, PRIVATE: Any building incidental to an existing principal use which
provides shelter for equine for the exclusive use of the occupants of the
premises.
STREET: Any vehicular way which:
   A.   Is an existing State, County or Municipal roadway; or
   B.   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law; or
   C.   Is approved by other official action and includes the land between the
street lines, whether improved or unimproved.
STRUCTURE: Anything that is the result of a humanmade change constructed,
erected or moved to or from any premises which is located above, on, or below
the ground including, but not limited to, construction, reconstruction or
placement of a building or any addition to a building; installing a
manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a manufactured home or
installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
days; installing utilities, construction of roads or similar projects;
construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or culverts;
drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating; and the storage of
materials. Temporary recreational facilities including, but not limited to,
tents, camper trailers and recreation vehicles are not considered structures
when used less than one hundred eighty (180) days per year and located landward
of the minimum setback provided as a natural vegetation strip.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SURFACE AREA: In the case of a double-faced sign, only one side of the sign is
considered in determining sign area if: a) the sign is substantially identical
on both sides, and b) the sides of the sign diverge at an angle of less than
forty five degrees (45°). If the sign is composed of individual letters, words,
symbols or elements, using a wall, awning, canopy, window, or other landscape
or architectural feature as the background with no added decoration, the total
sign area shall be calculated by measuring the area of an imaginary rectangle
that encloses the extreme limits of the individual letters, words, symbols or
elements.
TAVERN, COCKTAIL LOUNGE: An establishment in which the principal business is
the sale of alcoholic beverages to patrons for consumption on the premises. A
liquor license from the Liquor Commissioner of the Village is required.
TAX EXEMPT PROPERTY: Property which because of its ownership or use is not
subject to property taxation and meets State requirements for tax exempt
status.
TEMPORARY SIGNS: Any sign that, by reason of the material(s) with which it is
constructed and/or its manner of construction, is intended to remain only for a
short duration generally not to exceed ninety (90) days, except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE: A structure without any foundation or footings and which
is removed when the designated time period, activity or use for which the
temporary structure was erected has ceased.
TEMPORARY USE: A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent to
discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
TOTAL SYSTEM HEIGHT: The total height of the tower and the wind turbine of a
Small Wind Energy System, as measured from the average grade at the base of the
system to the top of the blade or rotor.
USE: The purpose or activity for which land or buildings are designed, arranged
or intended or for which land or buildings are occupied or maintained.
UTILITY SERVICES: Establishments engaged in the generation, transmission and/or
distribution of electricity, cable television, telephone, gas or steam,
including water and irrigation systems and sanitary systems used for the
collection and disposal of garbage, sewage and other wastes by means of
destroying or processing materials.
VARIATION: Permission to depart from the literal requirements of a zoning
ordinance.
VARIATION, BULK: A departure from any provision of a zoning ordinance except
use.
VARIATION, USE: A variation granted for a use or structure that is not
permitted in the zone.
VEGETATION: All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, mosses and grasses.
VEHICLE DEALER: Any establishment engaged in the sale and/or long term leasing
and/or short term rental of vehicles and/or trailers, and/or accessories for
same and including, but not limited to, the sale or leasing of automobiles,
motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, trucks, trailers, snowmobiles, boats, and/or
personal watercraft.
VEHICLE REPAIR SERVICE AND GARAGE: Any establishment engaged in furnishing
repair of vehicles, including, but not limited to, mechanical repairs, body
repairs, upholstery replacement and/or repairs, and/or parking services.
VEHICLE SERVICE STATION: Any building, land area or other premises or portion
thereof used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sales of fuels
for motor vehicles and/or the sale and installation of lubricants, tires,
batteries, or other accessories or equipment related to vehicles, including,
but not limited to, mufflers, brakes, truck beds, truck tops, hitches and
plows.
VEHICLE SIGN: A sign attached to, painted on, or otherwise applied to an
operable or inoperable motor vehicle, van, or trailer which is parked or placed
in position where it is intended to function as a permanent or temporary sign.
VEHICLE WASH: Any building or premises or portions thereof used for washing,
waxing, and/or detailing of motor vehicles.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: A building structure or portion thereof designed or used
for the care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
VIBRATION: A periodic motion of the particles of an elastic body or medium in
alternately opposite directions from the position of equilibrium when that
equilibrium has been disturbed.
VIOLATION: The act of disregarding, disobeying, neglecting, omitting or
refusing to comply with the regulations or enforcement of this title.
WALL SIGN: Any sign painted on or attached to and erected parallel to the face
of, or erected and confined within the limits of the outside wall of any
building and supported by such wall or building and which displays only one
advertising surface.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign placed inside or upon a window or door facing the outside
and which is intended to be seen from the exterior.
YARD: An open space that lies between the principal or accessory building or
buildings and the nearest lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in this title.
YARD DEPTH: The shortest distance between a lot line and a yard line.
YARD, FRONT: A space extending the full width of the lot between any building
and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at the
closest point to the front lot line. Such front yard shall be unoccupied and
unobstructed from and including the ground upward except as may be permitted
elsewhere in this title. In any residential zoning district, the only use(s),
occupation(s), obstruction(s), or structure(s) permitted within front yards
are: a) walkways; b) uncovered steps; c) landscaping, including, but not
limited to, retaining walls not in excess of three feet (3') in height; d)
drainage improvements and drainage structures; and e) vehicles parked within
the confines of a driveway on an improved surface (i.e., a surface of asphalt,
concrete, pavement, brick or gravel). Any use(s), occupation(s), obstruction
(s), or structure(s) not specifically permitted by these zoning regulations
shall be and is hereby excluded and prohibited from any required front yard. No
use(s), occupation(s), or obstruction(s) of any front yard in violation of this
definition, not involving a building or structure, shall be permitted to
continue or to remain after January 1, 2001.
YARD LINE: A line drawn parallel to a lot line at a distance therefrom equal to
the depth of the required yard.
YARD, REAR: A space extending across the full width of the lot between the
principal building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the
building to the closest point of the rear lot line. Such rear yard shall be
unoccupied and unobstructed from and including the ground upward except as may
be permitted elsewhere in this title. In any residential zoning district, the
only permitted use(s), occupation(s), obstruction(s), or structure(s) within
rear yards are: a) walkways; b) uncovered steps; c) fences and berms, but only
as permitted by and in compliance with section
8-3-8 of this title; d) landscaping, including, but not limited to, retaining
walls not in excess of three feet (3') in height; and e) drainage improvements
and drainage structures. Any use(s), occupation(s), obstruction(s), or
structure(s) not specifically permitted by these zoning regulations shall be
and is hereby excluded and prohibited from any required rear yard in any
residential zoning district. No use(s), occupation(s), or obstruction(s) of any
rear yard in violation of this definition, not involving a building or
structure, shall be permitted to continue or to remain after January 1, 2001.
YARD, REQUIRED: The open space between a lot line and the buildable area within
which no structure shall be located except as provided in this title.
YARD, SIDE: A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
principal building and the side lot line measured perpendicular to the closest
point of the principal building. Such side yard shall be unoccupied and
unobstructed from and including the ground upward except as may be permitted
elsewhere in this title. In any residential zoning district, the only permitted
use(s), occupation(s), obstruction(s), or structure(s) within side yards are:
a) walkways; b) uncovered steps; c) fences and berms, but only as permitted by
and in compliance with section
8-3-8 of this title; d) landscaping, including, but not limited to, retaining
walls not in excess of three feet (3') in height; and e) drainage improvements
and drainage structures. Any use(s), occupation(s), obstruction(s), or
structure(s) not specifically permitted by these zoning regulations shall be
and is hereby excluded and prohibited from any required side yard. No use(s),
occupation(s), or obstruction(s) of any side yard in violation of this
definition, not involving a building or structure, shall be permitted to
continue or to remain after January 1, 2001.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Lake
Barrington, Illinois.
ZONING DISTRICT MAP: The map incorporated herein by reference which designates
zoning districts.
ZONING PERMIT: A document signed by the Enforcement Officer as required in this
title, as a condition precedent to the commencement of a use or the erection,
construction, reconstruction, restoration, alteration, conversion or
installation of a structure or building, which acknowledges that such use,
structure or building complies with the provisions of the Municipal zoning or
authorized variation therefrom. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2000-O-24,
12-5-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007; Ord. 2010-O-20, 11-3-2010;
Ord. 2011-O-08, 5-3-2011; Ord. 2011-O-24, 11-1-2011; Ord. 2013-O-12, 9-3-2013;
Ord. 2014-O-02, 2-4-2014; Ord. 2018-O-1, 1-2-2018; Ord. 2018-O-20, 10-9-2018;
Ord. 2019-O-13, 12-10-2019; Ord. 2020-O-05, 2-4-2020; Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021;
Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023; Ord. 2023-O-06, 3-2-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
2 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
ESTABLISHMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Districts
8-3-2: Zoning Map
8-3-3: Boundaries Of Districts
8-3-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
8-3-5: Home Occupation Regulations
8-3-6: Corner Lots
8-3-7: Antennas
8-3-8: Fences; Berms
8-3-8-1: Regulations Applicable To The R-1, R-2, R-5, And C Districts
8-3-8-2: Regulations Applicable To The B, M, And O Districts
8-3-8-3: Maximum Slope Of Berms
8-3-9: Gas Powered Recreational Equipment
8-3-10: Temporary Uses
8-3-11:    Adult Use Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
8-3-12:    Renewable Energy Systems
8-3-12-1: Purposes
8-3-12-2: General Requirements
8-3-12-3: Small Wind Energy Systems
8-3-12-4: Solar Energy Systems
8-3-12-5: Prohibited Renewable Energy Systems
8-3-12-6: Special Uses
8-3-12-7: Maintenance And Removal Of Renewable Energy Systems
8-3-1: DISTRICTS:
   A.   Zoning Districts: The following districts are established for this
zoning title:
 
R-5 Single-family residential district two hundred thousand (200,000) square
    foot lots
R-2 Single-family residential district eighty thousand (80,000) square foot
    lots
R-1 Single-family residential district forty thousand (40,000) square foot lots
B   Business district
O   Office and research district
M   Manufacturing and industrial district forty thousand (40,000) square foot
    lots
C   Conservation district
 
   B.   Overlay Districts: In addition, the following overlay districts are
established in chapter 5 of this title:
   Agricultural overlay district
   Countryside unit overlay district
   C.   Conformity Required: No building, structure or premises shall be used
and no building or structure shall be erected or altered in any district unless
it is in conformity with the regulations established and set forth in this
title. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021)
8-3-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the districts are shown on the village of
Lake Barrington zoning map which is part of zoning ordinance 90-O-16.
   B.   Map On File: The zoning map with all the notations, references and
other information shown has the same force and effect as if it were all fully
set forth or described. The original zoning map is properly attested and on
file with the village clerk. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-3-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   District boundaries are the centerline of the rights of way unless
otherwise shown.
   B.   Where the property has been or may be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines.
   C.   In any unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the zoning
map shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map. (Ord. 90-O-
16, 7-3-1990)
8-3-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Any territory annexed to the village shall be automatically classified as an R-
5 single-family residential district unless an annexation agreement takes
precedence. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-3-5: HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purposes: Home occupations, as defined in section
8-2-2, “Definitions”, of this code, are allowed as long as they are uses that
conform to the standards of this Section. In general, a home occupation is an
accessory use so located and conducted that the average neighbor, under normal
circumstances, would not be aware of its existence. The standards for home
occupations are intended to ensure compatibility with other permitted uses and
the residential character of the Village and to maintain the subordinate and
incidental status of the home occupation.
   B.   Location: A home occupation may be conducted in any dwelling unit or in
any building or structure accessory to the dwelling unit in any zoning district
in which dwelling units are permitted.
   C.   Permitted Uses: Home occupations shall include and are limited to the
following uses:
      1.   Babysitting services;
      2.   Instruction in music, dance, home crafts and art; provided, that the
total class size does not exceed four (4) students at any time;
      3.   Occasional sales;
      4.   Offices of accountants, architects, brokers, consultants, engineers,
insurance agents, lawyers, real estate agents and urban planners;
      5.   Offices of medical, dental or veterinary practitioners;
      6.   Offices of ministers, priests and rabbis;
      7.   Offices of sales personnel, sales representatives or manufacturers'
representatives; provided, that no retail transactions shall be made on the
premises except through telephone, telegraph, fax or mail communication and no
wholesale transactions shall include the acceptance or delivery or merchandise
on the premises;
      8.   Repair services, but not including retail sales;
      9.   Studios of artists, authors, composers, photographers and sculptors;
      10.   Workrooms of dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors;
      11.   Workrooms for home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving,
lapidary work and cabinet making.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All home occupations not permitted are prohibited.
   E.   Standards: The following standards shall govern the operation of a home
occupation:
      1.   The building or structure in which the home occupation is located
shall be subject to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located.
      2.   The home occupation shall be conducted completely within the
dwelling unit or within an accessory building or structure.
      3.   Only the permanent residents of the dwelling unit shall be employed
in the home occupation.
      4.   The home occupation shall be subordinate and incidental to the
principal use of the building or structure for residential purposes. Not more
than the lesser of five hundred (500) square feet or fifteen percent (15%) of
the gross floor area of the dwelling unit and accessory buildings or structures
on the premises on which the home is located shall be devoted to the home
occupation.
      5.   The outside display of goods and the outside storage of equipment,
materials or motor vehicles utilized in the home occupation shall be
prohibited.
      6.   Off-street parking for the home occupation shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8 of this Title.
      7.   No home occupation shall generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes,
odors or electrical interference in excess of that permitted in M, B and O
Districts and such home occupation shall be further restricted so that in no
event shall it generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical
interference beyond that which normally occurs in the residential zoning
district in which it is located.
   F.   Occasional Sales:
      1.   General: As used herein "occasional sales" shall mean those sales of
goods, wares and merchandise owned by the occupant or former occupant of the
premises or owned by a group of persons having a common sale generally known as
garage sales, basement sales, house sales, estate sales, yard sales and rummage
sales conducted on an infrequent and irregularly scheduled basis on premises
zoned or used for residential purposes. Bulk sales, the sale of multiple new
items of the same description and the sale of consigned merchandise,
merchandise brought to the premises for resale or for reconditioning for resale
are prohibited.
      2.   Time Limitation: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
to allow to be conducted an occasional sale as defined herein on premises zoned
or used for residential purposes over a period of time in excess of two (2)
days or to conduct more than one such occasional sale on the same premises, by
the same household, within any six (6) month period. It is further provided
that no occasional sale as defined herein shall begin before nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. nor continue later than six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      3.   Permit; Application; Fee:
         a.   Permit Required: Whenever three (3) or more persons from
different households conduct a combined occasional sale on the same day or
days, which sale offers items for sale at three (3) or more residences, a
permit shall be required.
         b.   Application: The permit application shall be filed with the
village clerk by appearing in person or by mail utilizing a permit application
provided by the village clerk. The application shall contain the names and
addresses of all persons offering items for sale from their residences in the
combined occasional sale. The permit application shall be signed by one or more
members of each household offering goods for sale in the combined occasional
sale and the application shall state that all those whose names are listed in
the application shall comply with the provisions of this section.
         c.   Display Of Permit: Each permit shall be prominently displayed on
one of the premises covered by the permit in such a manner that it is easily
visible to persons passing by the premises.
         d.   Permit Fee: The fee for each such permit issued shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00).
         e.   Exceptions: No permit shall be required for other occasional
sales as defined in this title except as provided by this section.
      4.   Signs:
         a.   No more than two (2) signs shall be displayed designating the
location of any such occasional sale. One sign shall be a directional sign
which may be located off of the sale premises, provided any off premises sign
shall not interfere with traffic or cause a safety hazard. A second sign may be
displayed only in the area between the public street and the front building
line of the house at which the sale is being held and not within any portion of
dedicated right of way of any street, road, highway or on other public
property. Signs for such sales shall not exceed a gross surface area of six (6)
square feet on each of two (2) display surfaces and each sign shall not exceed
a height of three feet (3') as measured from the ground to the top of the sign.
All other items which might be used to draw attention to such sales, including,
but not limited to, banners, streamers, balloons and flags are hereby
prohibited.
         b.   All signs authorized under this section shall be removed no later
than three (3) hours after conclusion of the sale and in no event later than
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on the second day of the sale.
      5.   Display Of Merchandise: It shall be unlawful for any person to
display for sale any goods, wares or merchandise under the provisions of this
section beyond the property lines of his or her lot. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990;
amd. Ord. 2022-O-15, 12-6-2022)
8-3-6: CORNER LOTS:
On any corner lot, no structure of any kind or vegetation in excess of eighteen
inches (18") above street level at the edge of pavement shall be located in any
portion of such lot within fifty feet (50') of the lot corner formed by the
intersection of any two (2) streets. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
8-3-7: ANTENNAS:
   A.   Intent And Purpose: It is the determination of the village that
antennas of all sizes, shapes, varieties and uses, including, but not limited
to, those used for private or public radio and television transmitting and
receiving, microwave and parabolic, dish, spherical, horn and disk type
antennas constitute physical additions to the village of such character and
degree of unsightliness that their construction, placement, installation and
use require regulation by the village.
The purpose and intent of this section is to promote and protect the general
health, safety and welfare of the people and to protect and to preserve the
taxable value of real estate in the village.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   Building Permit Required: Every installation of an antenna shall
require a building permit prior to commencement.
      2.   Permit Null And Void: Any such building permit issued for an antenna
shall be null and void if such antenna is used in violation of any applicable
state or federal law.
      3.   Advertising, Illumination, Etc.: No advertising, logos or symbols
shall be permitted on any antenna, nor shall any antenna be illuminated except
by such safety lighting as required by applicable state or federal law. Each
antenna shall be of one and only one color and shall have a flat, matte,
nongloss and nonfluorescent type finish. All antenna installations shall
exhibit architectural design and coloration to blend with the surroundings and
structural integrity. Installations of inferior materials or of questionable
stability shall not be permitted.
      4.   Screening Required: Every parabolic, dish, spherical, horn and/or
disk type antenna, including the base therefor shall be substantially eighty
five percent (85%) screened from the view from any point within two hundred
fifty feet (250') from the center point of the proposed location of each such
antenna and from a point or points that are between ground level and twenty
feet (20') above ground level.
      5.   Number Permitted: Not more than one parabolic, dish, spherical, horn
and/or disk type antenna may be installed on a single zoning lot.
      6.   Roof Installations: Roof installations of parabolic, dish,
spherical, horn and disk type antennas, including the base, shall be identical
in color to the roof and the height thereof shall not exceed the highest point
of the roof. Flat roof installations shall be enclosed by a penthouse, fence,
false mansard or other visual screen consistent with the materials and color of
the building. Penthouses, fences and false mansards or other structures used as
a visual screen shall not be used in determining the highest point of the roof.
      7.   Temporary Installations: Temporary mobile or trailer installations
of antennas exceeding one given or specific week within any calendar year shall
not be permitted.
      8.   Ground Installations: Ground installations shall be landscaped so as
to be compatible with the surrounding properties.
      9.   Screening Methods: Appropriate screening methods may include, but
are not necessarily limited to, evergreen shrubs, evergreen trees, wood or
brick fence or a house. Any humanmade screening material shall be limited to
seven feet (7') in height, except for a house which shall meet the height
restrictions contained in this title.
      10.   Construction And Installation: The construction and installation of
antenna shall strictly conform to all applicable provisions of this code.
      11.   Quality Of Installations: All installations shall exhibit
architectural quality, coloration to blend with surroundings and structural
integrity.
      12.   Experimental Installations: Experimental or temporary
installations, inferior materials and questionable stability are not permitted.
      13.   Permanent Foundations: Permanent foundations shall be adequate for
anticipated wind loads.
      14.   Electrical Connections: Electrical connections shall be low voltage
direct or pulsed current except where the device connected is Underwriters
Laboratory approved in which case alternating current will be allowed to code
requirements.
      15.   Access Secured: Installations shall be secured from access by
children as in the case of an attractive nuisance.
      16.   Freestanding Antennas: No freestanding antennas shall exceed the
maximum permitted height for a building in the zoning district where it is
located.
   C.   Residential Areas: In addition to the general requirements, all
installations on properties within any residential zoning district shall also
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   In every case the installation shall not be located within any
required setbacks or side yards.
      2.   The maximum allowable size of any antenna in a residential area
shall be determined by the corresponding lot size as indicated on the following
table:
 
                          Maximum Diameter Or Span Maximum Height For
                          For Parabolic, Dish,     Parabolic, Dish, Spherical,
Minimum Lot Size          Spherical, Horn And Disk Horn, And Disk Antennas For
                          Antennas                 Ground Based And Flat Roof
                                                   Installations
40,000 sq. ft.            6 ft.                    9 ft.
80,000 sq. ft.            8 ft.                    11 ft.
200,000 sq. ft.           10 ft.                   13 ft.
More than 200,000 sq. ft. 10 ft.                   13 ft.
 
 
                                                     Maximum Span For Tower,
Minimum Lot Size          Maximum Span For Tower,    Rod Or Frame Type Antennas
                          Rod Or Frame Type Antennas Above Highest Point Of
                                                     Roof
40,000 sq. ft.            6 ft.                      12 ft.
80,000 sq. ft.            8 ft.                      12 ft.
200,000 sq. ft.           10 ft.                     12 ft.
More than 200,000 sq. ft. 10 ft.                     12 ft.
 
   D.   Nonresidential Areas: In addition to the general requirements, all
installations of antennas on properties lying within nonresidential zoning
districts shall also comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Installation Setback: In every case the installation shall be set
back from the property lines a minimum distance equal to two (2) times the
height or equal to the required building setback, whichever is greater.
      2.   Antenna Size: The maximum allowable size of any antennas in a
nonresidential zoning district shall be determined by the corresponding lot
size as indicated on the following table:
 
                          Maximum Diameter Or Span Maximum Height For
                          For Parabolic, Dish,     Parabolic, Dish, Spherical,
Minimum Lot Size          Spherical, Horn And Disk Horn, And Disk Antennas For
                          Antennas                 Ground Based And Flat Roof
                                                   Installations
40,000 sq. ft.            6 ft.                    9 ft.
80,000 sq. ft.            8 ft.                    11 ft.
200,000 sq. ft.           10 ft.                   13 ft.
More than 200,000 sq. ft. 10 ft.                   13 ft.
 
 
                                                     Maximum Span For Tower,
Minimum Lot Size          Maximum Span For Tower,    Rod Or Frame Type Antennas
                          Rod Or Frame Type Antennas Above Highest Point Of
                                                     Roof
40,000 sq. ft.            12 ft.                     12 ft.
80,000 sq. ft.            14 ft.                     12 ft.
200,000 sq. ft.           16 ft.                     12 ft.
More than 200,000 sq. ft. 16 ft.                     12 ft.
 
      3.   Special Uses: Where an approved antenna does not comply with one or
more of the requirements of this section or any other applicable provisions of
this title, then a special use permit shall be required.
Any antenna installed permanently on the effective date hereof and which has
been installed pursuant to a building permit issued on or before said date
shall be deemed to be a legal nonconforming use and subject to the applicable
provisions of this title. All other antennas shall be removed or otherwise
modified to comply with this section within six (6) months of the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-3-8: FENCES; BERMS:
The following requirements shall be applicable relative to the installation,
construction, and/or maintenance of any fence or berm within the village. (Ord.
2013-O-12, 9-3-2013)
8-3-8-1: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE R-1, R-2, R-5, AND C DISTRICTS:
   A.   Permitted height of fences and berms in R-1, R-2, R-5, and C districts:
      1.   Front Yard: Fences and berms are prohibited in front yards.
      2.   Rear Yards And Side Yards: Fences and berms, or any combination
thereof, shall not exceed seven feet (7') in height in any rear yard or side
yard.
      3.   Corner Lot Side Yards: Fences and berms, or any combination thereof,
shall not exceed four feet (4') in height in any corner lot side yard.
      4.   Through Lots: On any lot that has a rear yard abutting any road,
street, or right of way, fences and berms or any combination thereof, shall not
exceed seven feet (7') in height.
   B.   Location, construction, and maintenance of fences and berms in R-1, R-
2, R-5, and C districts:
      1.   All fences shall be constructed of wood, brick, stone, wrought iron,
extruded aluminum with a wrought iron appearance, vinyl, plastic, composite or
similar decorative materials.
      2.   A gated entrance shall be provided. Gates shall not swing open into
any sidewalk, street, alley, or across any property line.
      3.   Chainlink fences and temporary fencing shall be prohibited, except
on construction sites or unless authorized as part of a planned development.
      4.   Barbed wire, woven wire, and/or livestock fencing shall be
prohibited, except in the agricultural and countryside overlay districts.
      5.   Concrete and imitation concrete walls are prohibited.
      6.   Electrified fences shall be prohibited, except in agricultural and
countryside overlay districts.
      7.   Fences may be constructed up to the property line, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
      8.   No fence or berm shall be installed, erected, constructed, located,
and/or maintained in such a manner so as to impede or block stormwater and/or
surface water flows, except as may be approved in advance in writing by the
village engineer.
      9.   No fence or berm shall be installed, erected, constructed, located,
and/or maintained in such manner so as to impede the sightlines of any vehicle
on, entering, or leaving any public right of way.
      10.   If a fence is designed so that one side has a more finished
appearance, the side with the more finished appearance shall be located on the
exterior so as to face adjoining properties and away from the property on which
it is located.
      11.   If a fence is designed with posts, the posts shall be placed on the
inside of the fence or centered on the plane of the fence.
      12.   No fence or berm shall be erected within any public right of way.
      13.   The installation of any impervious surface on a berm is and shall
be prohibited, except as otherwise approved in advance by the village
administrator, or his designee.
      14.   Fences shall be maintained in good repair and in structurally sound
condition and in a neat, clean, attractive, and good condition. (Ord. 2013-O-
12, 9-3-2013)
8-3-8-2: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE B, M, AND O DISTRICTS:
   A.   Permitted height of fences and berms in the B, M and O districts:
      1.   Front Yards: Fences and berms are prohibited in front yards.
      2.   Rear Yards And Side Yards: Fences and berms, or any combination
thereof, shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height in any rear yard or side
yard.
      3.   Corner Lot Side Yards: Fences and berms, or any combination thereof,
shall not exceed six feet (6') in height on any corner lot side yard.
      4.   Through Lots: On any lot which has a rear yard abutting any road,
street, or right of way, fences and berms or any combination thereof, shall not
exceed eight feet (8') in height.
   B.   Location, construction, and maintenance of fences and berms in the B,
M, and O districts:
      1.   Fences may be constructed of wood, brick, stone, wrought iron,
extruded aluminum with a wrought iron appearance, vinyl, plastic, chainlink,
composite, or similar material.
      2.   A gated entrance shall be provided. Gates shall not swing open into
any sidewalk, street, alley, or across any property line. Where gates are kept
locked or are lockable, the applicable fire department shall be provided access
by keys and/or a knox box.
      3.   Barbed wire is prohibited, except in agricultural and countryside
overlay districts.
      4.   Concrete and imitation concrete walls are prohibited.
      5.   Electrified fences shall be prohibited, except in agricultural and
countryside overlay districts.
      6.   Temporary fencing is prohibited except when used on a construction
site.
      7.   Fences may be constructed up to the property line, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
      8.   No fence or berm shall be installed, erected, constructed, located
and/or maintained in such a manner so as to impede or block stormwater and/or
surface water flows, except as may be approved in advance in writing by the
village engineer.
      9.   No fence or berm shall be installed, erected, constructed, located,
and/or maintained in such manner so as to impede the sightlines of any vehicle
on, entering, or leaving any public right of way.
      10.   If a fence is designed so that one side has a more finished
appearance, the side with the more finished appearance shall be located on the
exterior so as to face adjoining properties and away from the property on which
it is located.
      11.   If a fence is designed with posts, the posts shall be placed on the
inside of the fence or centered on the plane of the fence.
      12.   No fence or berm shall be erected within any public right of way.
      13.   The installation of any hard surface on a berm is and shall be
prohibited, except as otherwise approved in advance by the village
administrator, or his designee.
      14.   Fences shall be maintained in good repair and in structurally sound
condition and in a neat, clean, attractive, and good condition. (Ord. 2013-O-
12, 9-3-2013)
8-3-8-3: MAXIMUM SLOPE OF BERMS:
The maximum permitted slope of any berm hereafter constructed or any existing
berm subject to any substantial modification shall be a four to one (4:1)
slope. Any such slope of any berm hereafter constructed or subject to any
substantial modification shall be no steeper than four to one (4:1). (Ord.
2013-O-12, 9-3-2013)
8-3-9: GAS POWERED RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT:
The operation of any vehicle, watercraft, equipment or device powered by
internal combustion of any kind for recreational purposes, including, but not
limited to, dirt bikes, motorcycles, motorbikes, snowmobiles, all-terrain
vehicles, personal watercraft and gas powered models, on any zoning lot or
parcel within the village when: a) such operation(s) in the aggregate, exceeds
two (2) hours within any twenty four (24) hour period; or b) when such
operation(s) occurs before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M.; and c) when any such operation is audible at the property line of
such lot or parcel, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited,
provided, however, operations inconsistent with the provisions of this section
may be authorized on property which is not within any residential zoning
district by a special use permit granted in accordance with the terms of this
section. (Ord. 95-O-4, 1-17-1995)
8-3-10: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Permittance; Limitations; Restrictions And Standards: Temporary uses,
as defined in this title, shall be permitted in all zoning districts, subject
to the limitations, restrictions and standards established in this section and
any other applicable provisions of this code. No temporary use shall continue
for such a length of time that it constitutes a permanent use.
   B.   Restrictions On Occasional Sales: Restrictions on occasional sales in
subsection 8-3-5F of this chapter are exempt from the standards of this
section.
   C.   Temporary Uses Subject To Administrative Review: The following
temporary uses may be permitted in any zoning district if the enforcement
officer determines that same are reasonably necessary to address emergency or
unique circumstances, such uses meet the requirements of this title and the
other applicable provisions of this code, and except as specifically provided
herein, shall only be located on property within the village only after a
temporary use permit therefor has been issued by the village's enforcement
officer, and shall be subject to the following limitations, restrictions and/or
conditions:
Construction trailers, storage sheds and yards used for construction equipment
and material, excluding bulk storage of hazardous or flammable materials, and
portable lavatories, subject to timely and continued compliance with the
following conditions:
      1.   The trailer, shed, storage area or portable lavatory is incidental
to the construction of a building or development for which one or more village
building or site development permit(s) has been issued.
      2.   The trailer, shed, storage area or portable lavatory is located on
the same lot as the building or development, or an abutting lot with the
written consent of that property owner.
      3.   The trailer, shed, storage area, or portable lavatory shall remain
within the village as permitted by this section no longer than the time of
construction, as determined by the issuance of any occupancy permit for the
building or development, if applicable.
      4.   The trailer, shed, storage area or portable lavatory shall be
located no closer than thirty feet (30') from any other property located in a
residential district.
Dumpsters and/or roll-offs for refuse and/or recycling containers
("dumpsters"), subject to timely and continued compliance with the following
conditions:
      1.   A dumpster shall be permitted to be located on a property in
conjunction with a valid building permit, provided however, the owner(s) and/or
occupant(s) of the subject property shall be responsible to immediately remove
said dumpster from the property as soon as said dumpster is no longer
reasonably necessary to serve the property, or when the enforcement officer
determines that said dumpster is no longer reasonably necessary to serve the
property, whichever first occurs.
      2.   A dumpster shall be permitted to be located on a property for a
period of not to exceed fifteen (15) days in the aggregate from the date of
issuance by the enforcement officer of a temporary use permit therefor for
purposes other than construction and when not in conjunction with a valid
building permit. An extension for an additional fifteen (15) days in the
aggregate may be granted by the enforcement officer if the enforcement officer
determines that such extension is reasonably necessary.
      3.   No dumpster shall be placed on any property within the village, not
in conjunction with a valid building permit, until and unless a temporary use
permit therefor shall have been obtained from the enforcement officer, and the
applicant for said temporary use permit shall be required to provide to the
enforcement officer any and all such information as determined to be reasonably
necessary by the enforcement officer for issuance of the required permit.
      4.   Dumpsters shall be located only on the property being served and
only with the written permission of the property owner(s).
      5.   No dumpster shall be located on village property (including, but not
limited to, any village right of way), except with the prior written permission
of the village board and/or village administrator.
Mobile home or trailer for temporary use as a construction office or a
construction and sales office, subject to timely and continued compliance with
the following conditions:
      1.   The construction, if any, is on the same property as the mobile home
or trailer.
      2.   It is not moved to the site more than thirty (30) days prior to
construction and is removed no later than thirty (30) days after construction
has been completed as determined by the issuance of any occupancy permit for
the building or development, if applicable.
      3.   It is not used for any purpose other than that connected with on
site construction.
      4.   It is determined by the enforcement officer to be reasonably
necessary, given the size and nature of the construction project.
      5.   It remains for a period not to exceed twenty four (24) months in the
aggregate.
      6.   It is utilized only incidental to on site construction during
daylight hours and not for residential living quarters.
      7.   It is parked in a location approved in advance in writing by the
enforcement officer.
      8.   It is skirted in a manner approved in advance in writing by the
enforcement officer.
      9.   If it is also to be utilized as a sales office, it shall provide
adequate designated customer parking, as determined to be appropriate and
necessary by the enforcement officer.
Portable storage units, subject to timely and continued compliance with the
following conditions:
      1.   A portable storage unit located on any private property for a period
of fifteen (15) days or less in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period
shall not require a temporary use permit issued by the enforcement officer but
shall otherwise be subject to the restrictions and requirements of this
section.
      2.   A portable storage unit located on private property for a period of
greater than fifteen (15) days in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period
shall require a temporary use permit issued by the enforcement officer.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection 1 of this use, no portable storage
unit shall be erected on any property within the village until and unless a
temporary use permit therefor shall have been obtained from the enforcement
officer, and the applicant for said temporary use permit shall be required to
provide to the enforcement officer any such information as determined necessary
by the enforcement officer for issuance of the required permit.
      4.   A portable storage unit shall be permitted to be located on any
private property for not to exceed ninety (90) days in the aggregate in any
twelve (12) month period. An extension of an additional ninety (90) day period
in the aggregate in the same twelve (12) month period may be granted by the
enforcement officer if the enforcement officer determines that such extension
is reasonably necessary.
      5.   No portable storage unit may be located on any property, except with
the written permission of the property owner(s).
      6.   No portable storage unit shall be located on any village property
(including, but not limited to, any village right of way), except with the
prior written permission of the village board and/or the village administrator.
      7.   A portable storage unit shall be located only on the private
property being served, at least five feet (5') from any property line, and only
on a hard surface driveway.
      8.   Only one portable storage unit shall be located on any private
property at one time.
      9.   No such portable storage unit located on private property shall
exceed sixteen feet (16') in length, eight feet (8') in width, and eight feet
(8') in height.
Tents, or other temporary structures, subject to timely and continued
compliance with the following conditions:
      1.   A tent or other temporary structure(s) erected on any property for
fifteen (15) days or less in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period
shall not require a temporary use permit issued by the enforcement officer but
shall otherwise be subject to the restrictions and requirements of this
section.
      2.   A tent or other temporary structure(s) erected on any property for
more than fifteen (15) days in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period
shall require a temporary use permit issued by the enforcement officer and
shall be subject to the restrictions and requirements of this section.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection 1 of this use, no tent or other
temporary structure(s) shall be erected on any property within the village
until and unless a temporary use permit therefor shall have been obtained from
the enforcement officer, and the applicant for said temporary use permit shall
be required to provide to the enforcement officer any and all such information
as determined necessary by the enforcement officer for issuance of the required
permit.
      4.   No tents or other temporary structure(s) shall be erected on any
property for more than forty five (45) days in the aggregate in any twelve (12)
month period.
      5.   No tents or other temporary structure(s) shall be erected on any
property, except with the prior written permission of the property owner(s).
      6.   No tent or other temporary structure(s) may be located on any
village property, except with the prior written permission of the village board
and/or the village administrator.
      7.   The height of the tent or other temporary structure(s) and setbacks
applicable to the location of the tent or other temporary structure(s) shall
conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which the property is
located, unless otherwise determined to be reasonably necessary and approved in
advance in writing by the enforcement officer.
      8.   The use conducted in the tent or other temporary structure(s) shall
be a use permitted in the respective zoning district in which the property is
located, unless otherwise determined to be reasonably necessary and approved in
advance in writing by the enforcement officer.
      9.   Other such temporary uses as may be determined necessary by the
enforcement officer, to address emergency or unique circumstances, provided,
however, such temporary uses shall be permitted on a property for not to exceed
ninety (90) days in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period, with a
maximum renewal or extension of an additional ninety (90) days in the aggregate
in any twelve (12) month period, if determined to be reasonably necessary by
the zoning enforcement official, and such temporary uses shall not adversely
affect the health, safety or welfare of occupants and users of the temporary
use, or adjacent properties or persons, or to the public.
      10.   Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions and requirements of this
Paragraph C, but without any limitation on said restrictions and requirements,
a tent used for a use which is accessory to and subordinate to a principal use
may be permitted on a property from May 1 through November 1, or for any part
of such period, provided that: (i) the principal use on the subject property is
otherwise in compliance with this Zoning Ordinance; (ii) the use of such tent
otherwise complies with the provisions of this Paragraph C; (iii) a temporary
use permit for such tent is issued by the Enforcement Officer only after such
tent has been approved for occupancy by both the Building Commissioner and by
the applicable Fire Protection District; (iv) such tent shall be removed on or
before November 1 of each calendar year and shall not again be erected on the
same property until on or after the following May 1; and (v) such tent shall
not be erected or maintained on the same property during the same calendar
year, other than during the period from May 1 through November 1 of the same
calendar year.
   D.   Temporary Uses Subject To Review By The Village Board: Carnivals,
outdoor festivals, sidewalk sales, educational, health and/or fitness
exhibitions and events, farmers' market(s), or other public interest and
special events ("the event") are permitted as temporary uses in any zoning
district if such temporary uses meet the requirements of this title and the
other applicable provisions of this code, shall only be located on property
within the village after a temporary use permit therefor has been issued by the
village board, and shall be subject to timely and continued compliance with the
following conditions:
      1.   Vehicles, trailers, and other equipment related to the event shall
not be permitted to block driveways or other points of emergency vehicular
access to any property, or any portion of the public way.
      2.   The operation of the event shall be located entirely within the
private or public property designated for the respective event(s).
      3.   The event(s) shall only be permitted during hours when the
facility's parking would not be used for the primary use's high traffic
generation activities.
      4.   If determined necessary by the village board, or by the applicable
law enforcement or fire protection agency, access to the event(s) and security
therefor may be controlled by qualified personnel paid for by the permit
applicant. Prior to, and as a condition for, receiving a temporary use permit
for any event, the permit applicant must provide to the village board, for its
approval, written communication from the applicable law enforcement or fire
protection agency that adequate access and security provisions for the
respective event(s) have been made.
      5.   Prior to receiving a permit, and as a condition thereof, the permit
applicant must provide to the village board, for its approval, written evidence
that adequate provisions have been made for sanitary facilities for the
respective event(s).
      6.   Prior to the commencement of any event(s) for which a temporary use
permit is required, the building commissioner shall approve all electrical and
lighting facilities for the respective event(s). Prior to receiving the
required temporary use permit, the permit applicant must provide to the village
board, for its approval, written communication from the building commissioner
that adequate provisions have been made for electrical and lighting facilities.
      7.   Maximum noise levels and/or hours of operation for the event may be
established by the village board, or its designee. The approved noise levels
and/or hours of operation may be based on the distance of the site to adjoining
residential uses and any history of complaints about similar events, or other
factors reasonably determined to be relevant by the village board, or its
designee.
      8.   The permit applicant shall provide to the village a security deposit
in a form and in an amount approved by the village board, or its designee, for
complete site restoration upon the event's conclusion or should the respective
temporary use permit be revoked, if required by the village board. (Ord. 2010-
O-20, 11-3-2010; amd. Ord. 2020-O-12, 5-5-2020)
8-3-11: ADULT USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
Pursuant to the authority reserved to municipalities under Section 55-25 of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, the following adult use cannabis business
establishments are hereby prohibited in all Zoning Districts of the Village:
   Adult Use Cannabis Cultivation Center,
   Adult Use Cannabis Craft Grower,
   Adult Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization,
   Adult Use Infuser Organization or Infuser,
   Adult Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor,
   Adult Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter, and
   Any other Adult Use Cannabis Business Establishment(s) as defined in this
Title 8. (Ord. 2019-O-13, 12-10-2019)
8-3-12: RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS:
8-3-12-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this Section are to:
   A.   Establish zoning regulations relative to the installation and operation
of renewable energy systems permitted to be installed within the Village, i.e.,
Small Wind Energy Systems and Solar Renewable Energy Systems.
   B.   Accommodate sustainable energy production from renewable energy
sources.
   C.   Preserve the character and aesthetics of the Village's zoning districts
in the interest of maintaining property values, and promoting the public
health, safety and welfare of Village residents and businesses. (Ord. 2023-O-
04, 2-15-2023)
8-3-12-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements set forth in this Section shall govern the Renewable Energy
Systems which may be installed within the Village.
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this Section are intended to establish
zoning regulations for Solar Energy Systems and Small Wind Energy Systems which
may be installed in the Village. Geothermal Energy Systems and Large Wind
Energy Systems are not permitted within any zoning district of the Village.
Renewable energy installations not explicitly addressed herein may be
authorized by a special use permit issued by the Village subject to compliance
with the applicable provisions of this Village Code.
   B.   Use: Except as authorized by the Board of Trustees of the Village for
public utility purposes, a Renewable Energy System shall be accessory to the
principal permitted use of a site.
   C.   Approvals: No approval granted for a Renewable Energy System under the
provisions of this Section shall be construed to prevent ordinary or permitted
building, landscaping, or other accessory improvements on adjacent properties.
   D.   Permitting and Installation:
      1.   A building permit is required to be obtained from the Village prior
to commencement of any construction activity relative to the installation of
any Renewable Energy System.
      2.   The owner of a Renewable Energy System shall ensure that it is
installed and maintained in good condition and in compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Village Code and the laws, statutes, codes, and
regulations enforced by any State or Federal agency of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   All Small Wind Energy Systems shall be equipped with manual and/or
automatic controls to limit rotation of blades to a speed below the
manufacturer's designed limits.
      4.   All wiring associated with a Renewable Energy System shall be
underground or contained within a raceway that complements the building
materials of the principal structure.
      5.   Interconnection: Energy produced by a Renewable Energy System shall
be utilized on-site, except for Net Metering as authorized by the appropriate
regulatory agencies required by law.
      6.   Illumination of a Renewable Energy System shall be prohibited,
except to accommodate co-installation of parking lot lighting luminaries, where
applicable.
      7.   Signage: No commercial signage or attention-getting device is
permitted on any Renewable Energy System. A sign of a plain white background
with black lettering not exceeding four (4) square feet in size shall be
provided on each Small Wind Energy System which indicates the emergency contact
information of the property owner or operator.
      8.   Screening: There shall be no required mechanical screening for
Renewable Energy Systems. (Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-3-12-3: SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Authorization of Use:
      1.   Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy System:
         a,   Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy Systems shall be permitted in
the B, O, and M Zoning Districts and shall be installed in compliance with the
requirements of this Section and the other applicable provisions of this
Village Code.
         b.   Maximum Permitted Height: The maximum total permitted height of a
Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy System shall not exceed ten feet (10') above
the peak roof height of the building upon which said System is installed, or
ten feet (10') above the maximum building height permitted in the respective
zoning district in which said System will be located, whichever is less.
         c.   Location:
            (1)   Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy Systems shall be affixed
to the roof deck of a flat roof or to the ridge or slope of a pitched roof and
may not be affixed to the parapet or chimney of any structure.
            (2)   Such systems shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5')
from the edge or eave of the roof.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Small Wind Energy System: Ground-mounted Small Wind
Energy Systems shall be prohibited in all Zoning Districts of the Village.
   B.   Noise: Sound levels for any Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy System
shall not exceed the maximum decibels established in Section
8-4-8  (Performance Standards) of this Title. The Village may, at its
discretion, require a professional sound measurement by a third party expert at
the expense of the property owner, to confirm that the performance of such a
wind energy system complies with said Performance Standards.
   C.   Color: Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy Systems shall be
monochromatic in color, finished with a neutral and non-reflective coating,
such as white or light grey. Ground equipment, such as cabinets and associated
facilities, shall be factory-finished to match or complement the color of other
structures on the respective property. (Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-3-12-4: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Authorization of Use:
      1.   Permitted Use: Building-Mounted Solar Energy Systems may be
authorized administratively by a building permit in all zoning districts in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and the other applicable
provisions of this Village Code and shall be subject to prior review of the
plans therefor and written approval thereof by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
and the Building Commissioner, or their designees.
      2.   Special Use: Any Ground-Mounted Solar Energy System must be
specifically authorized by a special use, but such systems shall only be
located within the Village's B, O, or M Zoning District.
   B.   Height:
      1.   Building-Mounted Solar Energy System:
         a.   When installed on a flat roof, a Building-Mounted Solar Energy
System shall not exceed a maximum height of six feet (6') as measured from the
roof surface of the building on which the system will be mounted to the highest
point of the system as installed;
         b.   When installed on a pitched roof, a Building-Mounted Solar Energy
System shall be mounted parallel to the pitch of the roof and not extend more
than one (1) foot off of the roof surface;
         c.   In any event, the height of a Building-Mounted Solar Energy
System shall not exceed five feet (5') above the peak roof height of said
building or five feet (5') above the maximum permitted building height of the
respective zoning district, whichever is less.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy System: The maximum height of a Ground-
Mounted Solar Energy System shall be six feet (6') as measured from the average
grade at the base of the system to the highest edge of the system as installed.
   C.   Location of Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems:
      1.   All Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to and
shall require a special use permit authorizing installation and maintenance
thereof by an ordinance approved by the Corporate Authorities of the Village
after a required public hearing thereon, which special use permit shall require
and include, but not be limited to, the Applicant's submission to the Village
of a landscape screening plan and a plan for the decommissioning of such
System, including a performance guarantee, all of which shall be approved by
the special use ordinance.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall not be located within any
portion of the required front yard or corner side yard of any lot or parcel or
in any utility, water, sewer, or other type of public or Village easement.
      3.   All parts of any Ground-Mounted Solar Energy System shall be set
back at least fifteen feet (15') from any interior side lot line(s) and at
least fifteen feet (15') from any rear property line(s) of any lot or parcel,
and a clear, brush-free and vegetation-free area not less than ten feet (10')
in width, which area shall be required and maintained between the System and
any property line.
      4.   To the extent the respective requirements of Subparagraphs (2) and
(3) are inconsistent, the more restrictive requirement of such Subparagraphs
shall prevail and control.
      5.   Each ground-Mounted Solar Energy System shall be located on a lot or
parcel so that no portion of the System is visible from any street. Where the
Village Administrator determines that it is necessary to accomplish the
foregoing requirement of this Subparagraph 5, any Ground-Mounted Solar Energy
System shall be effectively screened by fencing or landscaping in a manner
approved in advance by the Village Administrator in order that no portion of
said System is visible from any street(s) adjacent to the subject property.
(Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)ã
8-3-12-5: PROHIBITED RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Geothermal Energy Systems shall be prohibited within all Zoning
Districts of the Village as they present a risk to the aquifer which is relied
upon by most of the Village for its potable water supply.
   B.   Large Wind Energy Systems and ground-mounted small wind energy systems
shall be prohibited within all Zoning Districts of the Village as they are
inconsistent with the character and/or the scale of permitted uses within each
of the Village's Zoning Districts. (Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-3-12-6: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Application: A petition for a special use permit for installation of a
Renewable Energy System on any lot or parcel within the Village shall be
initiated by submission to the Village of an application therefor in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and the other applicable provisions of this
Village Code, but such special use permit may only be issued when authorized by
this Title. A special use permit issued by the Village shall be required for
installation of a Renewable Energy System when specifically required by this
Title.
   B.   Issuance of Special Use Permit: The Village Board may issue or deny a
special use permit pursuant to this Title and the procedures described in
Chapter 10  of this Title (Variances and Special Uses).
   C.   Standards for Granting a Special Use:
      1.   A special use shall be required for a Renewable Energy System when
specifically required by this Section; and
      2.   The Village Board shall determine that the application has met all
of the general requirements of this Section; and
      3.   The proposed Renewable Energy System shall provide demonstrable
benefits in furthering the intent of this Section and providing renewable
energy to the property on which it is proposed; and
      4.   The proposed Renewable Energy System is located in such a manner as
to minimize intrusions on adjacent residential uses through siting on the lot,
selection of appropriate equipment, and such other appropriate means; and
      5.   The establishment of the proposed Renewable Energy System will not
prevent the normal and orderly use, development, or improvement of the adjacent
property for uses permitted in the respective zoning district.
   D.   Suspension or Revocation of Special Use Permit: The Village does and
shall have the authority to suspend or revoke any special use permit issued for
any such Renewable Energy System upon the failure by any property owner or
occupant, or any system owner or lessee, to maintain such system in proper
operating condition and in compliance with this Village Code and with the
special use granted to authorize such system, or to properly repair such system
within a reasonable time frame, and such failure shall constitute a violation
of any special use permit issued therefor. (Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-3-12-7: MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of the property upon which a Renewable
Energy System is located shall be responsible to maintain said System: (1) in
good repair and proper operating condition, (2) in compliance with this Village
Code, including compliance with all applicable standards to ensure structural
integrity of such facilities, (3) in compliance with (i.e., not exceeding) the
noise level standards set from time to time by the Illinois Pollution Control
Board for noise emissions from Class C land to Class A land and such other
noise regulations as set forth in this Village Code, as amended from time to
time, and (4) in compliance with the special use granted by the Village to
authorize such system at all times. If a system becomes inoperable or damaged,
operation of such system must cease and be promptly and properly remedied, or
such system shall be removed.
   B.   If the Village determines that a Renewable Energy System fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this Village Code, the Village shall
provide written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall
have a period of sixty (60) days from the date of notification to either
restore the Renewable Energy System to proper operating condition and to a
condition of compliance with the applicable provisions of this Village Code, or
remove the system.
   C.   In the event such Renewable Energy System is not brought into
compliance with this Village Code within the specified time period, the Village
may, and shall have the authority to remove or to cause the removal of said
system at the property owner's expense and record a lien against the respective
property for the Village's costs incurred relative to removal thereof,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees.
   D.   The Village may pursue any and all available legal remedies to ensure
that a Renewable Energy System which fails to comply with this Village Code or
which constitutes a danger or a nuisance to persons or property is brought into
compliance or removed.
   E.   Any delay by the Village in taking enforcement action against the owner
of a Renewable Energy System and the owner of the property upon which such
system is located, if such owner is different from the owner of such system,
shall not constitute any waiver of the Village's right to take any action
thereon at a later time.
   F.   The Village may seek to have the Renewable Energy System removed
regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to repair or remove said system,
and regardless of any permits that may have been issued or granted therefor.
   G.   After the Renewable Energy System is removed, the owner and occupant of
the subject property shall be jointly and severally obligated to promptly
restore the subject property to a condition consistent with such property's
condition prior to the installation of said system. (Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: R-5 Single-Family Residential District
8-4-2: R-2 Single-Family Residential District
8-4-3: R-1 Single-Family Residential District
8-4-4: B Business District
8-4-5: O Office And Research District
8-4-6: M Manufacturing And Industrial District
8-4-7: C Conservation District
8-4-8: Performance Standards In M, B And O Districts
8-4-9: Design Standards In M, B And O Districts
8-4-1: R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R-5 district is the provision of an area of
residential living of such character as fits the rural nature of the village.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in an R-5 district are:
      Accessory uses.
      Single-family detached dwellings, one per lot.
      Solar energy systems, building mounted.
      Temporary buildings and signs for construction purposes for a period not
to exceed the construction period.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in an R-5 district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
      Churches.
      Golf courses.
      Planned unit developments.
      Schools, including playgrounds and athletic fields.
      Utility and public service uses, including:
      Electric substations.
      Fire and police stations.
      Municipal facilities.
      Sanitary sewage treatment facilities.
      Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All geothermal energy systems, all wind energy
systems, and all ground-mounted solar energy systems are prohibited in the R-
5 Zoning District. All uses which are not expressly permitted in the R-5 Zoning
District are prohibited.
   E.   Lot Size: Every lot shall have a minimum area of two hundred thousand
(200,000) square feet and a minimum width at the front building line of three
hundred feet (300').
   F.   Height Of Buildings And Other Structures: The height of buildings and
other structures shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories above a
basement story or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   G.   Building Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area
of not less than one thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet. Dwellings having
more than one story shall have not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of ground floor area with a total of not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet.
   H.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall not be closer to side
or rear lot lines than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot, nor
closer to the front lot line than thirty feet (30') from the right of way of
any road. In no case shall an accessory structure extend in front of the rear
line of the principal building, except for the following:
      1.   First floor entrance steps, open terrace (without roofs or sides)
and underground utility structures.
      2.   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building projections
to the extent of eighteen inches (18").
      3.   Main building entrance shelters smaller than thirty five (35) square
feet and projecting not more than six feet (6').
   I.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') from the nearest right-of-way boundary of any road.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot. A side yard
adjoining a street shall be not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
         3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten
percent (10%) of the average width of the lot. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd.
Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-4-2: R-2 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R-2 district is the provision of residential
area of lesser land area requirements than the R-5 district which will still
allow the space needed for separation of dwelling units from each other and
permit dwellings of a generous size.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in an R-2 district are:
      1.   Single family detached dwellings, one per lot.
      2.   Temporary buildings and signs for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed the construction period.
      3.   Accessory uses.
         4.   Solar energy systems, building mounted.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in an R-2 district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
      1.   Schools, including playgrounds and athletic fields.
      2.   Churches.
      3.   Utility and public service uses, including:
         a.   Electric substations.
         b.   Fire and police stations.
         c.   Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs.
         d.   Sanitary sewage treatment facilities.
         e.   Municipal facilities.
      4.   Planned unit developments.
      5.   Golf courses.
      6.   Existing Special Uses and Planned Unit Developments: The following
special use for a planned unit development remains in full force and may be
maintained as legal, conforming use within the R-2 Zoning District: Savannah of
Lake Barrington Planned Development Ordinance No. 2000-O-16, as amended from
time to time.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All geothermal energy systems, all wind energy
systems, and all ground-mounted solar energy systems are prohibited in the R-
2 Zoning District. All uses which are not expressly permitted in the R-2 Zoning
District are prohibited.
   E.   Lot Size: Every lot shall have a minimum area of eighty thousand
(80,000) square feet and a minimum width at the front building line of one
hundred ninety feet (190').
   F.   Height Of Buildings And Other Structures: The height of buildings and
other structures shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories above a
basement story or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   G.   Building Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area
of not less than one thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet. Dwellings having
more than one story shall have not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of ground floor area with a total of not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet.
   H.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall not be closer to side
or rear lot lines than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot nor
closer to the front lot line than thirty feet (30') from the right of way of
any road. In no case shall an accessory structure extend in front of the rear
line of the principal building, except for the following:
      1.   First floor entrance steps, open terrace (without roofs or sides)
and underground utility structures.
      2.   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building projections
to the extent of eighteen inches (18").
      3.   Main building entrance shelters smaller than thirty five (35) square
feet and projecting not more than six feet (6').
   I.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') from the nearest right-of-way boundary of any road.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than ten percent (10%) the average width of the lot. A side yard
adjoining a street shall be not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the average width of the lot. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2019-
O-12, 12-10-2019; Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-4-3: R-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R-1 district is to allow existing dwellings
on forty thousand (40,000) square foot (or greater) lots to remain as
conforming uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in an R-1 district are:
      1.   Single family detached dwellings, one per lot.
      2.   Temporary buildings and signs for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed the construction period.
      3.   Accessory uses.
      4.   Solar energy systems, building mounted.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in an R-1 district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
      1.   Schools, including playgrounds and athletic fields.
      2.   Churches.
      3.   Utility and public service uses, including:
         a.   Electric substations.
         b.   Fire and police stations.
         c.   Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs.
         d.   Sanitary sewage treatment facilities.
         e.   Municipal facilities.
      4.   Planned unit developments.
      5.   Golf courses.
      6.   Existing Special Uses And Planned Unit Developments: The following
planned unit developments or special uses may be maintained as legal,
conforming uses within the R-1 Zoning district so long as each such project is
developed and maintained in accordance with its respective special use and/or
planned unit development ordinance and any amendments thereto and the terms,
conditions and provisions thereof, and the approvals given from time to time
from the village plan commission and the corporate authorities of said village:
         a.   Lake Barrington Shores Planned Unit Development, Ordinance No.
72-O-3, as amended from time to time.
         b.   Smith Building Planned Development, Ordinance 86-O-6, as amended
from time to time.
         c.   Stonehenge Golf Course Special Use, Ordinance No. 69-O-2.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All geothermal energy systems, all wind energy
systems, and all ground-mounted solar energy systems are prohibited in the R-
1 Zoning District. All uses which are not expressly permitted in the R-1 Zoning
District are prohibited.
   E.   Lot Size: Every lot shall have a minimum area of forty thousand
(40,000) square feet and a minimum width at the front building line of one
hundred thirty feet (130').
   F.   Height Of Buildings And Other Structures: The height of buildings and
other structures shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories above a
basement story or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   G.   Building Area: One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area
of not less than one thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet. Dwellings having
more than one story shall have not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of ground floor area with a total of not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet.
   H.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures shall not be closer to side
or rear lot lines than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot nor
closer to the front lot line than thirty feet (30') from the right of way of
any road. In no case shall an accessory structure extend in front of the rear
line of the principal building except for the following:
      1.   First floor entrance steps, open terrace (without roofs or sides)
and underground utility structures.
      2.   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building projections
to the extent of eighteen inches (18").
      3.   Main building entrance shelters smaller than thirty five (35) square
feet and projecting not more than six feet (6').
   I.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') from the nearest right of way boundary of any road.
      2.   Side Yard: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than ten percent (10%) the average width of the lot. A side yard
adjoining a street shall be not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the average width of the lot. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2019-
O-12, 12-10-2019; Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-4-4: B BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the B district is to provide for the
establishment of business uses with restrictions that will enhance the
potential of all permitted businesses to attract customers.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in a B district are:
Art and school supply stores.
Banks and financial institutions.
Barbershops.
Beauty parlors.
Book and stationery stores.
Building materials sales, not including outside storage.
Camera and photography supply stores.
Candy and ice cream stores.
Coin and philatelist stores.
Custom dressmaking establishments.
Department stores.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning and laundry establishments with processing done elsewhere.
Dry goods stores.
Florist shops.
Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets, bakeries and delicatessens.
Garden supply and seed stores.
Gift shops.
Hardware stores.
Hobby shops for retail distribution of items to be assembled or used away from
the premises.
Interior decorating shops.
Jewelry stores, including watch repair.
Leather goods and luggage stores.
Libraries.
Liquor stores.
Locksmith shops.
Millinery shops.
Musical instrument sales and repair.
Newspaper offices, but not including printing.
Office supply stores.
Office uses as follows:
Advertising agency.
Engineering office.
Insurance office.
Medical laboratory.
Professional office including, but not limited to, doctors, lawyers,
architects, engineers and accountants.
Utility company office.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Pet supply stores.
Phonographic and musical supply stores.
Picture framing when conducted on the premises for retail trade.
Post offices.
Radio and television service and repair shops.
Real estate sales offices.
Restaurants.
Shoe and hat stores, including repair services.
Solar energy systems, building mounted.
Sporting goods stores.
Tailor shops.
Telephone booths.
Tobacco shops.
Toy shops.
Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices.
Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
Variety stores.
Veterinary hospital.
Video sales and rentals.
Wearing apparel shops.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in a B district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
Banquet facilities, private exhibition halls and meeting rooms.
Indoor recreation uses.
Planned unit developments.
Schools, including playgrounds and athletic fields.
Structures with more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area on
the ground floor.
Utility and public service uses, including:
Electric substations.
Fire and police stations.
Municipal facilities.
Sanitary sewage treatment facilities.
Shelters, terminals, parking areas and service buildings for school bus
transportation.
Small wind energy systems, whether ground-mounted or building-mounted.
Solar energy systems, ground-mounted.
Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs.
Vehicle dealers, vehicle service stations, vehicle repair services, and garages
and vehicle washes.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All geothermal energy systems and all large wind
energy systems are prohibited in the B Zoning District. All uses which are not
expressly permitted in the B Zoning District are prohibited.
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking and loading areas
must be provided as specified in chapter 8 of this title.
   F.   Floor Area Ratio: The combined floor area ratio for any principal
building, together with any accessory buildings, shall not exceed seventy five
hundredths (0.75) in a B district.
   G.   Building Size:
      1.   Floor Area: No structure in a B district shall have less than five
hundred (500) nor more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area on
the ground floor.
      2.   Lot Area: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses
related thereto, shall be located on a lot having a minimum area of forty
thousand (40,000) square feet.
   H.   Height Of Buildings And Other Structures: The height of any building or
other structure shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories above a
basement story or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   I.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard setback having a minimum
depth of thirty feet (30') wherein there shall be no building, fencing, or
other structure(s), nor any parking, or storage permitted. Front yard setbacks
shall be provided for each side of a corner or through lot bordering on a
public or private roadway.
      2.   Side Yard: On each side of a lot there shall be a side yard setback
having a minimum depth of ten feet (10') wherein there shall be no building or
other structure(s), nor shall any parking, driveway or storage be permitted,
except that fencing and berms shall be permitted only in compliance with
section
8-3-8-2 of this title, provided, however, that the side yard setback adjoining
a street or a residential zoning district shall be not less than thirty feet
(30').
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard setback having a minimum depth
of twenty feet (20') wherein there shall be no building or other structure(s),
nor shall any parking, driveway or storage be permitted, except that fencing
and berms shall be permitted only in compliance with section
8-3-8-2 of this title.
   J.   Exterior Lighting:
      1.   Shielding: All exterior lighting sources shall be shielded so that
direct illumination is not visible to an observer standing on the property line
of a residential district at a height of five feet (5') above the ground. This
requirement does not apply to public street lighting.
      2.   Modification: Anytime exterior lighting is installed or
substantially modified in any manner, an exterior lighting plan shall be
submitted to the enforcement officer for approval prior to the implementation
of any changes.  (Ord. 2011-O-24, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-O-03, 2-4-2014;
Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-4-5: O OFFICE AND RESEARCH DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the O district is to provide areas attractive to
executive headquarters and nuisance free industrial operations, such as
research laboratories and pilot plants which require land adjacent to
transportation facilities. This district is intended to promote nonresidential
uses which are compatible with the uses allowed in surrounding residential
areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in an O district are:
Office uses as follows:
Advertising agency.
Engineering office.
Insurance office.
Medical laboratory.
Professional office including, but not limited to, doctors, lawyers,
architects, engineers and accountants.
Utility company office.
Offices for executive or administrative purposes.
Personnel training center (excluding indoor recreation uses).
Scientific or research laboratories, including incidental pilot plants.
Research facilities for conducting research with respect to all types of
animals, fowl and poultry and agricultural products and processes for
consumption or use by humans or nonhumans.
Solar energy systems, building-mounted.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in an O district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
Healthcare facilities.
Planned unit developments.
Utility and public service uses, including:
Electric substations.
Fire and police stations.
Municipal facilities.
Sanitary sewage treatment facilities.
Shelters, terminals, parking areas and service buildings for school bus
transportation.
Small wind energy systems, whether ground-mounted or building-mounted.
Solar energy systems, ground-mounted.
Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All geothermal energy systems and all large wind
energy systems are prohibited in the O Zoning District. All uses which are not
expressly permitted in the O Zoning District are prohibited.
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking and loading areas
must be provided as specified in chapter 8 of this title.
   F.   Lot Size: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses, shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area of two hundred thousand (200,000) square
feet.
   G.   Floor Area Ratio: The combined floor area ratio for any principal
building, together with all accessory buildings, shall not exceed twenty
hundredths (0.20) on any lot in an O district.
   H.   Building Size: The minimum ground floor area under roof for O district
buildings shall be two thousand (2,000) square feet.
   I.   Height Of Buildings And Other Structures: The height of any building or
other structure shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories above a
basement story or thirty five feet (35') whichever is lower.
   J.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard setback having a minimum
depth of thirty feet (30') wherein there shall be no building, fencing, or
other structure(s), nor any parking, or storage permitted. Front yard setbacks
shall be provided for each side of a corner or through lot bordering on a
public or private roadway.
      2.   Side Yard: On each side of a lot there shall be a side yard setback
having a minimum depth of ten feet (10') wherein there shall be no building or
other structure(s), nor shall any parking, driveway or storage be permitted,
except that fencing and berms shall be permitted only in compliance with
section
8-3-8-2 of this title, provided, however, that the side yard setback adjoining
a street or a residential zoning district shall be not less than thirty feet
(30').
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard setback having a minimum depth
of twenty feet (20') wherein there shall be no building or other structure(s),
nor shall any parking, driveway or storage be permitted, except that fencing
and berms shall be permitted only in compliance with section
8-3-8-2 of this title.
   K.   Operations: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses shall
be operated in an attractive and nuisance free manner to maintain a high
quality of environment for the O district.
   L.   Exterior Lighting:
      1.   Shielded: All exterior lighting sources shall be shielded so that
direct illumination is not visible to an observer standing on the property line
of a residential district at a height of five feet (5') above the ground. This
requirement does not apply to public street lighting.
      2.   Modification: Anytime exterior lighting is installed or
substantially modified in any manner, an exterior lighting plan shall be
submitted to the enforcement officer for approval prior to the implementation
of any changes. (Ord. 2011-O-24, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-O-03, 2-4-2014; Ord.
2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-4-6: M MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the M district is to provide an area in which
manufacturing enterprises can operate in a clean and safe manner consistent
with the purpose of this title.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in an M district are:
Agricultural services uses.
Bulk materials storage.
Manufacturing, industrial and processing uses.
Solar energy systems, building-mounted.
Veterinary hospitals.
Any uses permitted in the B and/or O districts, including, but not limited to,
structures which are more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area
on the ground floor, which structures, when located in the M district shall not
require a special use unless otherwise specifically required by this section.
All uses which are not expressly permitted are prohibited, except uses which
are permitted by special permit which shall be prohibited unless expressly
authorized by a specific special use permit approved by the board of trustees.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in an M district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
Adult entertainment cabaret.
Adult mini-motion picture theater.
Adult motion picture theater.
Adult stores.
Animal uses (nonveterinary), provided, however, that if any portion of such
animal use(s) are conducted, in whole or in part, out of doors, said outdoor
use(s) shall be conducted only in an area which is not located in any front
yard, which is within a fully enclosed, fenced area, the fencing for which area
shall be at least five feet (5') in height and shall fully comply with section
8-3-8 of this title.
Indoor recreation.
Massage parlor.
Massage school.
   Medical cannabis cultivation center.
   Medical cannabis dispensing organization.
Planned unit development.
Schools, including playgrounds and athletic fields.
Senior citizen housing planned development.
Shelters, terminals, parking areas and service buildings for school bus
transportation.
Small wind energy systems, whether ground-mounted or building-mounted.
Solar energy systems, ground-mounted.
Special uses permitted in the B district.
Utility and public service uses, including:
   Electric substations.
   Fire and police stations.
   Municipal facilities.
   Sanitary sewage treatment facilities.
   Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs.
Vehicle dealer, vehicle service station, vehicle repair service and garage, and
vehicle wash.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: The following are prohibited in an M district:
Acid manufacture.
Arsenals.
Concrete and/or asphalt batch plants.
Crematories.
Dumping or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal or refuse.
Fireworks or explosive manufacture or storage.
Geothermal energy systems.
Gutta perchas manufacture or treatment.
Large wind energy systems.
No activities involving the storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or
products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted. Such materials shall
include, but not be limited to, all primary explosives such as lead azide, lead
styphnate and tetracene; all high explosives such as TNT, RDX, HMX, OETN and
picric acid; propellants and components thereof such as nitrocellulose, black
powder, boron hydrides, hydrazine and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and
fireworks such as magnesium powder, potassium chlorate and potassium nitrate;
blasting explosives such as dynamite and nitroglycerin; unstable compounds such
as acetylides, tetrazoles, perchloric acid, perchlorates, chlorates, hydrogen
peroxide in concentrations greater than thirty five percent (35%); nuclear
fuels, fissionable materials and products and reactor elements such as uranium
235 and plutonium 239; and radioactive materials having a whole body radiation
of more than seven (7) mR per hour or more than a total of five (5) R per year
at the radiation source.
Ore reduction.
Petroleum processing or refining.
Saltworks.
Smelters.
Tar distillation or manufacture.
   E.   Location Of And Restrictions On Certain Activities:
      1.   Enclosed Building Or Screening Required:
         a.   All storage or activities involving the manufacturing,
fabricating, assembly, repairing, storing, cleaning, servicing and testing of
materials, products and goods shall be within completely enclosed buildings, or
may be out of doors, subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Such open storage or other outdoor activities shall be
permitted only if completely screened by a solid fence of eight feet (8') in
height and said fence shall comply with section
8-3-8 of this title; and
            (2)   There shall be no open storage or other outdoor activities
permitted at a height greater than that of the enclosing wall or fence, and
there shall be no open storage or other outdoor activities permitted within any
front yard, side yard, or rear yard as provided herein.
      2.   Location Of And Other Restrictions Relative To Medical Cannabis
Uses:
         a.   Medical Cannabis Cultivation Centers:
            (1)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers located within the
village shall be and are required to be established, operated, and maintained
in full compliance with the compassionate use act and all other applicable
village ordinances and Illinois statutes.
            (2)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall not be located
within a specified distance of preexisting public or private preschools,
elementary schools, secondary schools, daycare centers, home daycare, group
daycare homes or part day childcare facilities as and to the extent provided by
the compassionate use act and all other applicable Illinois statutes.
            (3)   Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall not be located in
any building containing, in whole or in part, residential uses and/or any
building which is zoned for residential uses.
            (4)   Drive-through facilities accessory to such medical cannabis
cultivation centers shall not be permitted.
            (5)   Outdoor, window, and/or on site media displays of merchandise
and/or products related to a medical cannabis cultivation center shall not be
permitted.
            (6)   All operations of a medical cannabis cultivation center must
be fully enclosed within a locked building.
            (7)   A medical cannabis cultivation center shall not be located in
any other zoning district than the M district, and such a use shall be located
in the M district only pursuant to a special use.
         b.   Medical Cannabis Dispensing Organizations:
            (1)   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations located within the
village shall be and are required to be established, operated, and maintained
in full compliance with the compassionate use act and all other applicable
village ordinances and Illinois statutes.
            (2)   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall not be
located within a specified distance of preexisting public or private
preschools, elementary schools, secondary schools, daycare centers, home
daycare, group daycare homes or part day childcare facilities as and to the
extent provided by the compassionate use act and all other applicable Illinois
statutes.
            (3)   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall not be
located in any building containing, in whole or in part, residential uses and/
or in any building which is zoned for residential uses.
            (4)   Drive-through facilities accessory to such medical cannabis
dispensing organizations shall not be permitted.
            (5)   Outdoor, window, and/or on site media displays of merchandise
and/or products related to a medical cannabis dispensing organization shall not
be permitted.
            (6)   All exterior signage associated with a medical cannabis
dispensing organization shall be in compliance with the sign regulations as
established in chapter 9 of this title. In addition, no exterior signage,
including window treatments over eight and one-half inches by eleven inches
(81/2" x 11") in size, shall use the word "marijuana", "cannabis", or any other
word, phrase, or symbol commonly understood to refer to marijuana or cannabis.
            (7)   A medical cannabis dispensing organization shall not be
located in any other zoning district other than the M zoning district, and such
a use shall be located in the M district only pursuant to a special use.
   F.   Off Street Loading And Parking: Off street parking and loading areas
must be provided as specified in chapter 8 of this title.
   G.   Lot Size: Any principal use, together with all accessory uses, shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area of forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
   H.   Floor Area Ratio: The combined floor area ratio for any principal
building together with all accessory buildings shall not exceed seventy five
hundredths (0.75) on any lot within the M district.
   I.   Building Size: The minimum ground floor area under roof for buildings
in an M district shall be two thousand (2,000) square feet.
   J.   Height Of Buildings And Other Structures: The height of any building or
other structure shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories above a
basement story or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower.
   K.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard setback having a minimum
depth of thirty feet (30') wherein there shall be no building, fencing, or
other structure(s), nor any parking, or storage permitted. Front yard setbacks
shall be provided for each side of a corner or through lot bordering on a
public or private roadway.
      2.   Side Yard: On each side of a lot there shall be a side yard setback
having a minimum depth of ten feet (10') wherein there shall be no building or
other structure(s), nor shall any parking, driveway or storage be permitted,
except that fencing and berms shall be permitted only in compliance with
section
8-3-8-2 of this title, provided, however, that the side yard setback adjoining
a street or a residential zoning district shall be not less than thirty feet
(30').
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard setback having a minimum depth
of twenty feet (20') wherein there shall be no building or other structure(s),
nor shall any parking, driveway or storage be permitted, except that fencing
and berms shall be permitted only in compliance with section
8-3-8-2 of this title. (Ord. 2011-O-24, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-O-03, 2-4-
2014; Ord. 2023-O-04, 2-15-2023)
8-4-7: C CONSERVATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the C district is to provide for the conservation
of the land in its natural flora and fauna.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The only uses permitted in a C district are uses which
enhance the conservation of the land and its natural flora and fauna. No
structures or improvements other than drainage improvements are permitted in a
C district except as a special use.
   C.   Special Uses: The following special uses are allowed in a C district
only if approved by the board of trustees:
      1.   Nature Centers, if intended to educate the public about the
particular land features of the area surrounding the Nature Center.
      2.   Parking areas for Nature Centers.
      3.   Structures intended for research leading to preservation of the
natural features, flora and fauna of the area. This includes such efforts as
banding or otherwise marking birds and animals to determine migration patterns,
research into reasons for presently occurring stimulation or inhibition of
indigenous vegetation growth.
      4.   Footpaths, trails, bridges, boardwalks, observation decks, bicycle
trails and similar structures or improvements.
   D.   Prohibited Uses: All uses which are not expressly permitted are
prohibited except where permitted by a special use permit.
   E.   Creation Of New Conservation Districts: A conservation district may be
established on private property with the concurrence of the property owner.
(Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-4-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS IN M, B AND O DISTRICTS:
Any use established in any M, B and/or O district shall be operated in such a
manner as to comply with applicable performance standards as hereinafter set
forth governing noise, smoke, particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter,
odors, fire and explosive hazards or vibration, glare or heat; and no use
already established on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this
Title shall be altered or modified as to conflict with or further conflict with
such applicable performance standards. Compliance standards shall be based upon
a certification from a testing laboratory approved by the board of trustees.
   A.   Noise: At no point on the boundary of any zoning lot in any M, B or O
district shall the sound intensity level for the operations on said lot exceed
the decibel levels in the designated octave bands shown in the following table:
Octave Band                   Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Frequency (Cycles Per Second) Along Residence District Along All Other District
                              Boundaries               Boundaries
Octave Band                   Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Frequency (Cycles Per Second) Along Residence District Along All Other District
                              Boundaries               Boundaries
0 to 74                       67                       75
75 to 149                     59                       70
150 to 299                    52                       63
300 to 599                    46                       57
600 to 1,199                  40                       50
1,200 to 2,399                34                       45
2,400 to 4,799                32                       38
4,800 and over                32                       36
 
Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and associated octave
band filters manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American
Standards Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network of the
sound meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the performance
standards prescribed, provided that such noises shall be capable of being
accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured,
for the purpose of this Chapter, shall be those noises which cause rapid
fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more
than plus or minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured,
such as those of an irregular and intermittent nature, shall be controlled so
as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: The emission of smoke or particulate matter in
such a manner or quantity as to endanger or be detrimental to the public
health, safety, comfort or welfare is declared to be a public nuisance and
shall be unlawful.
      2.   Grading Density: For the purpose of grading the density of smoke,
the Ringelmann Chart published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines
shall be employed. The emission of more than eight (8) smoke units per hour per
stack is prohibited, including emission of smoke or particulate matter of a
density greater than No. 2 on the Ringelmann Chart, except that during one one-
hour period in each twenty four (24) hour day each stack may emit up to sixteen
(16) smoke units when blowing soot or cleaning fires. Only during fire-
cleaning periods, however, shall smoke of Ringelmann No. 3 be permitted and
then for not more than three (3) minutes.
      3.   Total Emissions: The emission from all sources within any lot area
of particulate matter containing more than ten percent (10%) by weight of
particles having a particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is
prohibited.
      4.   Dust And Other Pollutants: Dust and other types of air pollution,
borne by the wind from such sources as storage areas, yards, roads and the like
within lot boundaries shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping,
paving, oiling, fencing or other acceptable means. Emission of particulate
matter from such sources in excess of the weight limitations herein specified
is prohibited.
   C.   Toxic Or Noxious Matter: No activity or operation shall cause, at any
time, the discharge across the boundaries of the lot where it is located toxic
or noxious matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger
the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or damage to
property or business.
   D.   Odors: The emission of odorous matter in such a quantity as to be
readily detectable at any point along lot lines or as to produce a public
nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines is prohibited.
   E.   Fire And Explosion Hazard:
      1.   Incombustible To Moderate Burning: The storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials or products ranging from incombustible to moderate
burning as determined by a closed cup flash point of not less than one hundred
eighty seven degrees (187°) Fahrenheit is permitted subject to compliance with
all other performance standards for the M, B and/or O districts.
      2.   Free Or Active To Intense Burning: The storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials or products ranging from free or active burning to
intense burning as determined for liquids by a closed cup flash point of less
than one hundred eighty seven degrees (187°) Fahrenheit, but not less than one
hundred five degrees (105°) Fahrenheit is permitted subject to compliance with
all other performance standards for the M, B and/or O districts and provided
the following conditions are met:
         a.   Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized or produced
within completely enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible
exterior walls; and
         b.   All such buildings or structures shall be set back at least forty
feet (40') from lot lines, or in lieu thereof, all such buildings or structures
shall be protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system prescribed by
the National Fire Protection Association, or if the materials, goods or
products are liquids the protection thereof shall be in conformity with
standards prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association.
      3.   Flammable Or Explosive Vapors: The utilization in manufacturing
processes of materials which produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases as
determined for liquids by a closed cup flash point of less than one hundred
five degrees (105°) Fahrenheit shall be permitted in these districts provided:
         a.   That the final manufactured product does not itself have a closed
cup flash point of less than one hundred eighty seven degrees (187°)
Fahrenheit;
         b.   That the use and storage of such materials shall be in
conformance with the standards prescribed by the National Fire Protection
Association and the requirements of this Code and the State of Illinois;
         c.   That the storage of more than fifty thousand (50,000) gallons of
materials or products having a closed cup flash point of less than one hundred
five degrees (105°) Fahrenheit (exclusive of storage in underground tanks and
exclusive of storage of finished products in original sealed containers) is
prohibited; and
         d.   That the storage of more than one hundred thousand (100,000)
gallons of materials or products having a closed cup flash point of less than
one hundred eighty seven degrees (187°) Fahrenheit (exclusive of storage in
underground tanks and exclusive of storage or finished products in original
sealed containers) is prohibited.
   F.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to
create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Exposed sources of light
shall be shielded so as not to create a nuisance across lot lines.
All exterior lighting sources shall be shielded so that direct illumination is
not visible to an observer standing on the property line of any residential
district at a height of five feet (5') above the ground. This requirement does
not apply to public street lighting.
Any time exterior lighting is installed or substantially modified in any
manner, an exterior lighting plan shall be submitted to the enforcement officer
for approval prior to the implementation of any changes.
   G.   Vibration: At no point on the boundary of any zoning lot in any M, B or
O district shall the operations or activities on such lot cause earthborne
vibrations at any time in excess of the limits set forth in column B of the
table below. In addition, at no point on any zoning lot in any M, B and/or O
district shall the operations or activities on such lot cause at any time
earthborne vibrations at the boundary of any residential lot in excess of the
limits set forth in column C of the table below.
 
COLUMN A Frequency (Cycles Per COLUMN B1 Displacement  COLUMN C1 Displacement
Second)                        (Inches)                (Inches)
0 to 10                        0.0008                  0.0004
10 to 20                       0.0005                  0.0002
20 to 30                       0.0002                  0.0001
30 to 40                       0.0002                  0.0001
40 and over                    0.0001                  0.0001
 
   Note:
      1.   Steady state vibrations, for the purpose of this title which are
continuous, or if in discrete pulses are more frequent than 100 per minute.
Impact vibration, that is, discrete pulses which do not exceed 100 impulses per
minute shall not cause in excess of twice the displacement stipulated.
(Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-4-9: DESIGN STANDARDS IN M, B AND O DISTRICTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to:
         a.   Communicate with the development community in advance, the design
standards used in the M, B and O districts and to facilitate the review and
permitting process for such uses.
         b.   Assure the fair and consistent application of design objectives.
         c.   Protect property values within the M, B and O districts in the
village by encouraging consistent high quality development and redevelopment.
         d.   Require environmentally sensitive site and building design.
         e.   Meet the mission and goals and objectives of the village
comprehensive plan.
      2.   Scope, Approval Required: Approval by the village board, as part of
its approval of any related request for zoning relief, or approval by the
zoning enforcement official, if no related zoning relief is requested or
required, of a site, landscaping, and architectural plans and supporting plans
(to scale) shall be obtained prior to construction in the Lake Barrington
business park (LBBP) within the M, B, and O districts, of: a) any new building,
b) the redevelopment or remodeling of any existing building that affects the
exterior appearance of any such building, or c) the construction,
reconfiguring, or redevelopment of any parking lot(s) or other facilities. The
village shall have no obligation to issue a building permit for any such
construction, redevelopment, remodeling, or reconfiguring unless and until said
plans have been approved by the village board or by the zoning enforcement
official as required by this section, in accordance with the standards set
forth herein.
   B.   Buildings:
      1.   Building Design Standards: The following building design standards
are for use in reviewing site design, building architecture, and related
construction within the Lake Barrington business park ("LBBP"):
         a.   Design Concept: The design concepts for the LBBP is as a
professional, business, retail, light industrial, office, entertainment, and
recreational commercial park as described in the village comprehensive plan.
         b.   Organization And Design: The organization and design of the major
elements of buildings and structures in the LBBP shall reflect and be
consistent with the quality of materials, creativity of design, intensity and
quality of landscaping, and forethought prevalent in the Lake Barrington
residential community as described in the village comprehensive plan.
         c.   Architectural Elements And Style: A variety of alternative, yet
compatible architectural styles are acceptable. However, applicants shall
consider designs, styles, materials, and palettes that create an atmosphere of
quality, forethought, and professionalism.
            (1)   Building Design:
               (A)   Building elevations shall incorporate architectural
features and patterns that include some pedestrian scale.
               (B)   Building mass shall be broken into smaller elements,
consistent with the proportions of the architectural style selected.
               (C)   Variations in rooflines or parapets shall be used to
reduce the scale of buildings.
               (D)   Solid and soft or open areas of the facade shall be
arranged to create a relationship that complements the architectural style of
the structure. Soft or open building elements include windows, entryways,
arbors, porches, etc.
               (E)   Roof size, shape, material, color and slope shall be
coordinated with the scale and theme of the building.
               (F)   Internalize roof drain elements within the building or an
architectural feature such as columns (excepting at grade discharge).
               (G)   Predominant facade colors shall possess low reflectivity
characteristics and be neutral in character.
               (H)   Building trim and accent areas shall feature different
building materials and different colors than the building field color,
including use of primary colors, if compatible with the architectural design.
            (2)   Site Design:
               (A)   Sites shall be designed to minimize pedestrian and
vehicular conflicts. Where pedestrian circulation paths cross vehicular routes,
a change in paving materials, textures or colors shall be provided to emphasize
the conflict point, use decorative bollards to increase visibility, improve
safety and enhance aesthetic appeal.
               (B)   Buildings shall be located to complement a site's natural
features; the angling of structures and placing reduced massing toward the
public way shall be considered in all site designs and utilized whenever
possible.
            (3)   Materials:
               (A)   Predominant exterior building materials shall be of high
quality and durable. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
               (i)   Brick.
               (ii)   Stone, natural or faux.
               (iii)   Integral color, sandblasted or stained textured masonry.
               (iv)   Split face or scored concrete masonry units.
               (v)   Textured tilt-up concrete panels.
               (vi)   Stucco/EFIS.
               (vii)   Metal roofs.
               (viii)   Concrete and clay tile roofs.
               (ix)   Clear and tinted glass.
               (x)   Architectural metal.
               (B)   Predominant exterior building materials shall not include
the following:
               (i)   Untextured tilt-up concrete panels.
               (ii)   Prefabricated steel panels.
               (iii)   Corrugated metal.
               (iv)   Asphalt shingle roofs, except for period architecture.
               (v)   Mirrored (i.e., highly reflective) glass.
               (vi)   Wood.
            (4)   Entrances: Entrance(s) shall be clearly defined and
incorporate elements such as the following:
               (A)   Canopies or porticos.
               (B)   Overhangs.
               (C)   Recesses/projections.
               (D)   Raised corniced parapets over the door.
               (E)   Peaked roof forms.
               (F)   Arches.
               (G)   Entrance(s) framed by outdoor pedestrian features or
enhanced landscaping.
               (H)   Architectural details such as tile work and moldings
integrated into the building structure to frame the entryway.
               (I)   Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate
landscaped areas and/or sitting areas.
               (J)   Enhanced pedestrian surfaces.
            (5)   Lighting:
               (A)   Pedestrian scale lighting fixtures shall be provided in
areas designed for pedestrian activity such as plazas, courtyards, pathways and
seating areas but excluding parking only areas. Lighting fixtures shall be
selected that complement the general architectural style of the development.
               (B)   Highlighting of unique or special features of the site,
such as architectural features and specimen trees, with accent lighting shall
be considered and utilized whenever possible.
               (C)   Decorative wall mounted sconces or light fixtures shall be
used when building lighting is proposed on elevations away from residential
uses.
            (6)   Accessory Structures: Enclosed service/refuse areas and
covered parking shall be included and shall be designed to be an integral part
of the building architecture. The forms, colors, textures and materials used on
the main building shall be applied to all sides of these structures generally
visible to the public.
   C.   Landscaping:
      1.   General Landscape Guidelines: Front, side, and rear yards and
parking areas shall be landscaped in a "parklike" manner to include:
         a.   Significant foundation and/or accent plantings, including trees,
around buildings to accentuate or screen building features.
         b.   Robust deciduous shade trees around and within parking lots to
provide shade. Landscaped parking lot islands shall be provided to break up
large parking areas.
         c.   Ground cover and grasses in areas near pedestrian amenities and
prominent entrance features.
         d.   Low profile accent plantings at the base of monument signs.
         e.   Native planting such as grasses and wildflowers whenever
possible.
         f.   Appropriately landscaped rain gardens and bioswales when
possible.
         g.   Retaining walls shall be terraced and landscaped.
      2.   Parking And Storage Area Screening: All side and rear yard parking
and storage areas shall be screened from the street(s) and adjacent properties.
"Screening" as used herein shall mean a compact evergreen hedge or combination
of evergreens and native grasses and trees which will mature within three (3)
years to a height of not less than four feet (4') or an equivalent approved by
the village. Screening shall also include opaque fencing integrated into the
landscape plan where otherwise required by these zoning regulations. Fencing
shall not be used alone; appropriate foreground plantings shall be provided to
break up stretches of fencing. All areas not used for building, parking,
storage or driveways shall be planted in grass. All areas planted in grass
shall be maintained and mowed. (Ord. 2008-O-23, 7-1-2008)
   D.   Reserved. (Ord. 2013-O-12, 9-3-2013)
   E.   Other:
      1.   Refuse Container Location: No refuse container shall be located in
any required front yard.
      2.   Refuse Container Screening: All refuse containers shall be fully
enclosed by an opaque fence, wall, or densely planted evergreen hedge of a
height sufficient to screen such containers from view from adjoining properties
and public or private streets.
      3.   Mechanical And HVAC Systems Location: To the greatest extent
possible, mechanical and HVAC systems, including, but not limited to,
compressors, cabinets, valves, meters, generators, and antennas, and including
roof mounted systems, shall be located so as not to be visible from any public
street.
      4.   Mechanical And HVAC Systems Screening: All mechanical, HVAC systems,
and utility systems on private property, including, but not limited to,
compressors, cabinets, valves, meters, generators, and antennas, including roof
mounted systems, shall be fully enclosed or screened by an opaque fence, wall,
or densely planted evergreen hedge of a height sufficient to screen such
systems and equipment from view from adjoining properties and public or private
streets. (Ord. 2008-O-23, 7-1-2008)
CHAPTER 5
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Agricultural Overlay District
8-5-1-1: Intent
8-5-1-2: Permitted Uses
8-5-1-3: Special Uses
8-5-1-4: Prohibited Uses
8-5-1-5: Lot Size
8-5-1-6: Height Of Buildings And Other Structures
8-5-1-7: Building Area
8-5-1-8: Accessory Structures
8-5-1-9: Yards
8-5-2: Countryside Unit Overlay District
8-5-2-1: Intent
8-5-2-2: Countryside Units Designated
8-5-2-3: Accessory Uses Permitted
8-5-2-4: Wild Animals Prohibited
8-5-2-5: Lot And Building Requirements For Shelter For Animals
8-5-2-6: Sanitary Conditions Maintained
8-5-2-7: Pole Buildings
8-5-1: AGRICULTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICT:
8-5-1-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this overlay zoning district to allow the continuation of
the rural character of the Village in accord with the other provisions of this
Title. The Agricultural Overlay District shall apply to every lot or parcel
with an area of at least ten (10) acres and a minimum width of four hundred
feet (400'). (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-1-2: PERMITTED USES:
The only uses permitted in a Agricultural Overlay District are:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Apiary, but only in compliance with the terms, conditions and
restrictions of
Chapter 3 , "Animal Control", of Title 4, "Police Regulations", of this Village
Code.
   C.   Aquarium.
   D.   Arboretum or botanical garden.
   E.   Churches.
   F.   Single family detached dwellings, one per lot.
   G.   Temporary buildings and signs for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed the construction period.
   H.   Accessory uses.
   I.   Farrier.
   J.   Feed and grain sales.
   K.   Golf course.
   L.   Grain elevator.
   M.   Greenhouse and/or nursery center.
   N.   Kennels.
   O.   Museum.
   P.   Nursery.
   Q.   Animal refuge or preserve.
   R.   Private stable.
   S.   Veterinary clinic.
   T.   Pole buildings.
   U.   Christmas tree sales.
   V.   Any uses permitted by the underlying zoning classification and other
applicable overlay districts. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2023-O-06, 3-
2-2023)
8-5-1-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses are allowed in an Agricultural Overlay District only
if approved by the Board of Trustees:
   A.   Public stable.
   B.   Religious retreat. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-1-4: PROHIBITED USES:
All uses which are not permitted or special uses are prohibited. (Ord. 90-O-16,
7-3-1990)
8-5-1-5: LOT SIZE:
Every lot shall have a minimum area of ten (10) acres and a minimum width of
four hundred feet (400'). (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-1-6: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES:
The height of any building or other structure shall not exceed two and one-half
(21/2) stories above a basement story or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is
lower; provided, however that, a grain elevator or silo may not exceed fifty
feet (50') in height. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-1-7: BUILDING AREA:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet. Dwellings having more than one story
shall have not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of ground
floor area with a total of not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet.
(Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-1-8: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Accessory structures shall not be closer to side or rear lot lines than ten
percent (10%) of the average width of the lot nor closer to the front lot line
than thirty feet (30') from the right of way of any road. In no case shall an
accessory structure extend in front of the rear line of the principal building
except for the following:
   A.   First floor entrance steps, open terrace (without roofs or sides) and
underground utility structures.
   B.   Eaves, chimneys, bay windows and other ordinary building projections to
the extent of eighteen inches (18").
   C.   Main building entrance shelters smaller than thirty five (35) square
feet and projecting not more than six feet (6'). (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-1-9: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than thirty feet
(30') from the nearest right-of-way boundary of any road.
   B.   Side Yard: There shall be two (2) side yards, each of which shall be
not less than ten percent (10%) of the average width of the lot. A side yard
adjoining a street shall be not less than thirty feet (30') wide.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the average width of the lot. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-2: COUNTRYSIDE UNIT OVERLAY DISTRICT:
8-5-2-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this overlay zoning district to allow the continuation of
the rural character of the Village in accord with the other provisions of this
Title. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-2-2: COUNTRYSIDE UNITS DESIGNATED:
Each lot in every residential district in the Village containing a minimum area
of two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet and containing an area not in
excess of ten (10) acres or four hundred thirty five thousand six hundred
(435,600) square feet shall be known and referred to as a Countryside Unit.
Countryside Units shall meet the provisions of the residential district in
which they are located in regard to permitted uses, residential building
height, residential building area and yards associated with a residential
building. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-2-3: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Each Countryside Unit shall have, in addition to any other permissible use
which now exists in the district in which such unit is located, the following
permissible accessory use: Five (5) animal units may be kept and maintained as
provided herein for personal and not commercial or industrial use in each
Countryside Unit. One animal unit shall mean and refer to any one of the
following; provided, however, in no event shall more than five (5) animal units
be permitted in any one Countryside Unit:
    1 equine 12 months or older; or
    2 equine less than 12 months of age; or
    1 bovine 12 months or older; or
    2 bovine less than 12 months of age; or
    1 porcine 12 months or older or
    2 porcine less than 12 months of age; or
    3 ovine 6 months or older; or
    4 ovine less than 6 months of age; or
    3 caprine 6 months or older; or
    4 caprine less than 6 months of age; or
    6 domestic fowl or rabbits 5 months or older; or
   10 domestic fowl or rabbits less than 5 months of age.
(Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-2-4: WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definition: The term wild animal shall mean, refer to and include any
of the following:
      1.   Nondomestic animals not indigenous to the State;
      2.   Nondomestic animals indigenous to the State (except for those wild
animals indigenous to the State of Illinois whose keepers are properly licensed
by the State of Illinois, Department of Conservation and who otherwise comply
with the provisions hereof);
      3.   All subhuman primates, except when utilized by the handicapped; and
      4.   All poisonous and/or dangerous reptiles whether or not such animal
is indigenous to the State and whether or not its captivity is regulated by any
Federal law, State law, or any other law, rule or regulation.
   B.   Prohibition: The keeping, raising and/or propagation of any wild animal
as herein defined is expressly prohibited in each and every zoning district
within the Village, provided, however, this prohibition shall not be applicable
to beekeeping or apiaries which are maintained and operated in compliance with
the terms, conditions, and restrictions of Section
4-3-11, "Beekeeping and Apiaries", of
Chapter 3, "Animal Control", of Title 4, "Police Regulations", of this Village
Code. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990; amd. Ord. 2023-O-06, 3-2-2023)
8-5-2-5: LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS FOR SHELTER FOR ANIMALS:
Structures to provide shelter for the animals permitted to be kept and
maintained hereunder shall be permitted, provided:
   A.   No such structure shall be closer than fifty feet (50') from any
property line or dwelling and seventy five feet (75') from any water well.
   B.   No animal may be grazed upon or over any septic systems.
   C.   All of the other regulations provided herein with respect to the
applicable district in which such Countryside Unit is located shall be complied
with; provided, however, in the event that there is a conflict between any
regulation in Section
8-5-2 with a regulation contained in any other provision of this Title, the
more restrictive regulation shall apply.
   D.   Proper fences and/or other restraints shall be provided to prevent
animals from running loose and creating any hazards or dangers. (Ord. 90-O-16,
7-3-1990)
8-5-2-6: SANITARY CONDITIONS MAINTAINED:
Any requirements of the Lake County Health Department with respect to manure
piles and stockpiles of feed and bedding shall be followed. All manure piles
and stockpiles of feed and bedding shall be placed in such a manner and at such
a distance (not less than 100 feet) from water wells, septic systems and
buildings so as to protect the public health, safety and welfare by preventing
the propagation of disease, insects, other pests, obnoxious odors or any other
public hazards and public nuisances. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-5-2-7: POLE BUILDINGS:
Pole buildings are permitted uses in the Countryside Unit Overlay District.
(Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Authority To Continue
8-6-3: Restrictions
8-6-4: Certificate Of Legal Nonconformance Uses
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
This zoning title establishes separate districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of the uses permitted in that district. It is
necessary and consistent with the establishment of use districts that
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue
without restriction. This chapter provides for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses. It specifies those circumstances and conditions
under which nonconforming buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted to
continue. (Ord. 2000-O-13, 8-1-2000)
8-6-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time
of the adoption of this title or of any amendment and which remains
nonconforming, and any building, structure or use which lawfully existed and
which became or shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of the ordinance
codified in this title may be continued subject to the regulations which
follow. (Ord. 2000-O-13, 8-1-2000)
8-6-3: RESTRICTIONS:
Any lawfully existing building or structure which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located may be continued, subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Repairs And Alterations: If a building or structure is designed,
designated, or intended for a nonconforming use, repairs and alterations may be
made provided that no structural alterations are made which increase the bulk
of the building or structure except for those which are required by law or
which will make the building or structure and the use thereof conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
If a building or structure is designed, designated, or intended for a use
permitted in the district in which such building or structure is located but
the building or structure is nonconforming, repairs, alterations or structural
changes shall conform to the regulations of the district in which the building
or structure is located.
   B.   Additions: A nonconforming building or structure which is nonconforming
as to bulk, or all or substantially all of which building or structure is
designed, designated, or intended for a use that is not permitted in the
district in which such building or structure is located, shall not be added to
or enlarged in any manner unless such additions or enlargements and the use
thereof are made to conform to all the regulations of the district in which
such building or structure is located.
   C.   Relocation Of Building Or Structure: Any building or structure which in
whole or in part does not conform to all of the regulations of the district in
which it is located shall not be moved in whole or in part to any other
location on the lot unless every portion of such building or structure which is
moved and the use thereof is made to conform to all the regulations of the
district in which such building or structure is located.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Building Or Structure: A building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed, designated, or intended for a
use which is not permitted in the district in which such building or structure
is located and which is partially destroyed or damaged by fire or other
casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to the
condition in which it was before the occurrence shall exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the present cost of the reconstruction of the entire building or
structure shall not be restored unless such building or structure and the use
thereof shall conform to all the regulations of the district in which such
building or structure is located. In the event such partial damage or
destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the present cost of
reconstruction of the entire building or structure, no repairs or
reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is started within one year
from the date of the partial destruction and is diligently prosecuted to
completion.
A nonconforming building or structure, all or substantially all of which is
designed, designated or intended for a use which is permitted in the district
in which such building or structure is located, and which is partially
destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God to the extent that
the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the occurrence
shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the present cost of the reconstruction of
the entire building or structure shall not be restored unless said building or
structure and the use thereof shall conform to all of the regulations of the
district in which such building or structure is located. In the event such
partial damage or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the present
cost of reconstruction of the entire building or structure, no repairs or
reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is started within one year
from the date of the partial destruction and is diligently prosecuted to
completion.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use Or Structure: A building or
structure all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed,
designated, or intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in
which such building or structure is located, and which building or structure,
or a portion thereof, is, or becomes vacant and remains unoccupied or is not
used for a continuous period of one hundred eighty (180) days shall not
thereafter be occupied or used except by a use which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which such building or structure is located.
If a nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially all of
which building or structure is designed, designated, or intended for a use that
is permitted in the district in which such building or structure is located, is
discontinued for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days, it shall not
thereafter be renewed and any subsequent use of the building or structure shall
conform to the use regulations of the district in which such building or
structure is located.
The nonconforming use of land, or a portion thereof, not involving a building
or structure, or in connection with which any building or structure is
incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land, if discontinued for a
period of one hundred eighty (180) days shall not be renewed, and any
subsequent use of the land shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
district in which such land is located.
   F.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: The nonconforming use of part of a
building or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure
is designed, designated, or intended for a use that is not permitted in the
district in which it is located, shall not be in any way expanded, extended, or
increased in intensity, either throughout such building or structure or within
or into any portion of such building or structure.
The nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or substantially
all of which building or structure is designed, designated, or intended for a
use permitted in the district in which such building or structure is located
shall not be in any way expanded, extended, or increased in intensity, either
throughout the building or structure or within or into any other portion of
such building or structure nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
The nonconforming use of land, or a portion thereof, not involving a building
or structure or part of a building or structure, or in connection with which
any building or structure or part of a building or structure that is incidental
or accessory to the principal use of the land shall not be in any way expanded
or extended beyond the area it presently occupies or in any way increased in
intensity.
   G.   Change Of Nonconforming Use: No nonconforming use of a building or
structure or of part of a building or structure, or of a land or of part of a
tract of land shall be in any way expanded, extended, or increased in
intensity. No change of any kind that increases the physical dimension of any
building or structure shall be made unless both the changes and the related
uses which give rise to the changes conform to all the regulations of the
district in which the building or structure is located.
The nonconforming use of all or part of a building or structure or land, all or
substantially all of which building, structure, or land is designed, designated
or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which said building,
structure, or land is located, shall not be changed to another use except to a
use that is a permitted use in the district in which the building, structure or
land is located, provided, however, this prohibition shall not apply if the
change of such nonconforming use is to a less intensive form of the same
nonconforming use but a nonconforming use may not be changed to a more
intensive form of such use.
No nonconforming use shall be changed to another nonconforming use when such
nonconforming use is located in a building or structure, all or substantially
all of which building or structure is designed, designated or intended for a
use permitted in the district in which such building or structure is located.
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure or in
connection with which any building or structure is incidental or accessory to
the principal use of the land shall not be changed to any other use except to a
use permitted in the district in which the land is located.
   H.   Elimination Of Certain Uses: The use of vacant land for storage
purposes, where such use is not an adjunct of any structure which does not
conform to the provisions of this title shall be discontinued within five (5)
years from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and any
use of such vacant land which shall become nonconforming by reason of a
subsequent amendment to this chapter shall also be discontinued within five (5)
years from the date of such amendment. (Ord. 2000-O-13, 8-1-2000)
8-6-4: CERTIFICATE OF LEGAL NONCONFORMANCE USES:
A certificate of legal nonconformance shall be required of all lawful
nonconforming buildings, structures, or uses created by the adoption of this
title or amendments.
Upon notification by the enforcement officer or designated representative, an
application for a certificate of legal nonconformance for a nonconforming
building or use shall be filed with the enforcement officer by the owner or
lessee of the nonconforming building, structure or use. Provided the
application is for a lawful nonconforming use, the enforcement officer shall
issue such certificate of legal nonconformance within fifteen (15) working days
of completion and filing of such application.
Failure to apply for a certificate of legal nonconformance for a nonconforming
building, structure or use following such notification by the enforcement
officer or designated representative shall be evidence that such nonconforming
building, structure or use was either illegal or did not lawfully exist on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. (Ord. 2000-O-13, 8-1-
2000)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
SECTION:
8-7-1: Introduction
8-7-2: Intent
8-7-3: Location Of Planned Unit Developments
8-7-4: Residential Density Standards
8-7-5: Nonresidential Density Standards
8-7-6: Required Plans, Plats And Procedures
8-7-1: INTRODUCTION:
This chapter details the requirements for conventional developments. A special
use permit for a planned unit development allows an innovative and imaginative
design and provides that each case is considered individually.
Several types of planned unit developments are possible: cluster developments
of single-family dwellings on reduced size lots with common open space;
business developments of unified design and developments combining two (2) or
more land uses into a coordinated whole. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-7-2: INTENT:
The intent of the planned unit development is not to disregard this title, but
to allow other approaches to fulfill the purposes and intents of this title.
Requirements for parking and loading must be met in a planned unit development.
The requirements of this title or other requirements of this code may be
modified if adequate provisions are made to compensate for changes from the
requirements of this title. With this in mind, the following design standards
must be a part of each planned unit development:
   A.   Preservation Of Landscape: The landscape shall be preserved in its
natural state insofar as possible by minimizing tree and soil removal. Any
grade changes shall be in keeping with the general appearance of neighboring
developed areas.
   B.   Relation Of Proposed Building To Environment: Proposed structures shall
relate harmoniously to the terrain and to existing buildings in the vicinity.
This may include the enclosure of space in conjunction with other existing or
proposed buildings, creation of focal points with respect to avenues of
approach, terrain features or other buildings or other visual relationships.
The inventory and analysis phase during the design process should consider the
property and surrounding area for a distance of not less than one thousand feet
(1,000') in terms of topography, soils and geology, waterways, wetlands,
wildlife, drainage, vegetation, adjacent land uses and zoning, utilities,
roadways, trails and other information necessary to prepare a PUD that meets
the high standards of the village.
   C.   Drives, Parking And Circulation: Attention shall be given to the
location and number of access points to the public streets of both pedestrian
and vehicular circulation.
   D.   Surface Water Drainage: Special attention shall be given to proper site
surface drainage so that removal of surface waters will not adversely affect
neighboring properties or storm drainage.
   E.   Utility Services: Electric and telephone lines shall be underground.
All planned unit developments must specify both water source and method of
disposal of sanitary sewage. (Ord. 2011-O-24, 11-1-2011)
8-7-3: LOCATION OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
A planned unit development may be located in any district zoned for a use which
is a component of that planned unit development. No planned unit development
may be located in a district which is not zoned for one component of that
planned unit development. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-7-4: RESIDENTIAL DENSITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Number Of Dwelling Units: Within a residential planned unit
development or in the residential component of a multi-use planned unit
development, the maximum number of dwelling units shall be determined by the
area of the minimum lot size permitted for the zoning classification of the
area in which the proposed development is located. In the event that the
subject property is classified into two (2) or more zoning classifications, the
density shall be determined by calculating separately the number of units which
would be allowed on that land area in each zoning district and adding them
together. If the density calculation results in a fraction number, the
permitted number of dwelling units shall be the same as the lower whole number.
   B.   Lot Yield: In calculating lot yield, each lot shall contain a minimum
area of thirty three thousand (33,000) square feet, excluding areas where
slopes are in excess of fifteen percent (15%), floodplains, land incapable of
meeting percolation requirements, land formerly used for landfill operations or
hazardous industrial use, fault areas, stream corridors, estuaries, wetlands,
marshes, bogs, fens, lakes, ponds and other bodies of water.
   C.   Common Open Space: The space resulting from the reduced size of the
individual lots in a planned unit development shall be common open space for
the enjoyment or benefit of all residents of the development or by mutual
agreement between the Village and the developer, such area may be dedicated as
public open space. Primary (abutting) access from such common open space to
each building site need not be provided; however, convenient access through
permanent easement must be provided and perpetually guaranteed to all residents
not granted primary access. Open space land shall not be utilized for future
residential building sites. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-7-5: NONRESIDENTIAL DENSITY STANDARDS:
The floor area ratio of a nonresidential planned unit development or of the
nonresidential component of a multi-use planned unit development shall not
exceed the lowest floor area ratio of the nonresidential zoning district in
which any of the nonresidential uses could be located as a permitted use. (Ord.
90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-7-6: REQUIRED PLANS, PLATS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: An applicant for a special use permit for a planned unit
development or any amendment thereto shall file an application with the Village
Clerk which includes any proposed articles of incorporation and declaration of
covenants and restrictions. The planned unit development plan shall also be
submitted for review. This plan shall include a statement of purpose of the PUD
and the standards which shall be met by the PUD, with reference to both this
Title and Title 9 of this Code.
   B.   Comprehensive Site Development Plan: In addition, a comprehensive site
development plan shall be submitted first in the form of a preliminary plat
including the arrangement and location of buildings, uses permitted, open space
and landscaped areas, pedestrian walkway areas, parking and loading spaces and
facilities and other special features. This is to be followed once the plat has
been approved by a detailed landscaping plan showing the spacing, sizes and
specific type of landscaping material to be used. Developers are encouraged to
follow the sketch plan, preliminary plat, and final plat procedures contained
in Chapter 4 of Title 9.
   C.   Architectural Elevations And Perspective Drawings: Architectural
elevations and perspective drawings of all proposed structures and improvements
should also be submitted, except that in the case of a totally residential
planned unit development with individual dwellings to be custom built to the
buyer's specifications, only general elevations and perspective drawings need
be submitted.
   D.   Fiscal Impact Study: A fiscal impact study prepared by the developer
shall be submitted to the Village. The fiscal impact study shall list the
revenues that Village will receive from the PUD if approved and the costs to
the Village of providing Municipal services.
   E.   Traffic Impact Study: A traffic impact study prepared by the developer
shall be submitted to the Village showing the estimated changes in traffic
volumes and congestion on nearby collector distributor and arterial streets as
a result of the proposed PUD.
   F.   Development Schedule: A development schedule should be submitted
indicating the approximate date for the beginning of construction, the stages,
if any, in which the project will be built and the approximate dates when
construction of each stage can be expected to begin, the anticipated rate of
development and the approximate date when development of each of the stages
will be completed.
   G.   Surface Water Drainage Plan: A general surface water drainage plan
shall be submitted which shall indicate the existing contours (at one foot
intervals), proposed contours and method of controlling storm water drainage.
   H.   Water And Sewer Plan: A water and sewer plan shall be submitted
indicating the location of wells and septic tanks or other sewage treatment
facilities, together with the estimated usage in number of gallons of each.
   I.   Financial Assurances: A statement of proposed financing and acceptable
financial assurances must be submitted to guarantee that once any stage of
development is started, it will be completed. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
CHAPTER 8
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
8-8-1: Provision
8-8-2: General Requirements
8-8-3: Location, Design And Construction
8-8-4: Required Parking Spaces
8-8-5: Required Loading Spaces
8-8-1: PROVISION:
   A.   Existing Buildings And Structures: Off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided by the owner for all buildings and structures
existing or erected and all uses existing or established after the effective
date of the Ordinance codified in this Title. If a building permit was issued
prior to the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title and
construction is begun within six (6) months after such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities required at
the time of the issuance of such building permit may be provided in lieu of
those required by this Title, except that such building shall be subject to the
provisions of Section
8-8-2 of this Chapter.
   B.   Structural Addition: When the intensity of use of any existing
building, structure or premises is increased through a structural addition, the
addition of dwelling units, floor area, seating capacity or other units or
measurements specified for required parking or loading facilities, parking and
loading facilities shall be provided by the owner for such new addition or any
such increase in intensity of use.
   C.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of building, structure or
premises shall be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided by the owner as required for such new use. However, if such building
or structure was erected prior to the effective date of the Ordinance codified
in this Title, additional parking or loading facilities must be initially
provided only in the amount by which the requirements for the new use would
exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were subject to the parking
and loading provisions of this Title. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-8-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Utilization: Required off-street parking spaces shall be solely for the
parking of vehicles used for the transportation of occupants, patrons or
employees. Each required space shall be kept available at all times for parking
of such vehicles. No required parking space shall be rented, leased or used for
any purpose other than that for which such space is required. No sales or
repair work, except of an emergency nature, shall be permitted in required
parking spaces.
   B.   Collective Provisions: Off-street parking facilities for separate uses
may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not
less than the sum of the spaces required for each use served. If a collective
parking facility serves uses which do not generate automobile parking at the
same times, upon request by the owners of such uses, the Board of Trustees may
authorize a reduction in the total number of parking spaces to the minimum
required by those uses which generate automobile parking at the same time.
   C.   Control Of Off-Site Parking Facilities: In cases where parking
facilities are permitted on a lot other than the zoning lot on which the
building or use served is located, the party in possession of such lot shall be
the same as the party in possession of the zoning lot occupied by the building
or use to which the off-site parking facilities are accessory. Possession of
the off-site parking facilities may be either by deed or lease, the term of
such lease to be approved by the Board of Trustees and such deed or lease shall
be filed in the County Office of the Recorder of Deeds. The deed or lease shall
require such possessor and successor, heirs and assigns to maintain the
required number of parking facilities on the off-site lot for the duration of
the use served or of the deed or lease, whichever shall terminate sooner.
   D.   Existing Parking Facilities: Accessory off-street parking facilities in
existence on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title or any
amendment and located on the same lot as the building or use served shall not
be reduced below or if already less than shall not be further reduced below,
the requirements of this Title for such building or use; provided, such off-
street parking facilities may be relocated or otherwise provided in accordance
with the provisions of this Title. Such existing off-street parking facilities
that do not conform to all the requirements of Section
8-3-3 may be included as required off-street parking provided that the items of
nonconformance do not prevent or unduly hamper the required usage, have not
been detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare and have not caused
undue traffic congestion on a public street.
   E.   Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this Title shall
be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking or
loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings, provided
that all regulations governing the location, design, construction and operation
of such facilities shall apply.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction: For any conforming or nonconforming building or
use which is in existence on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in
this Title or any amendment, which subsequently is damaged or destroyed by
fire, collapse, explosion or other cause and which is reconstructed,
reestablished or repaired within two (2) years of such damage or destruction,
off-street parking or loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation.
Any conforming or nonconforming building or use reconstructed, reestablished or
repaired after two (2) years of such damage or destruction shall provide off-
street parking and loading facilities in accordance with the requirements of
this Title. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this Title for
equivalent new uses or construction.
   G.   Existing Use, Buildings Or Structures: An absence or deficiency of off-
street parking spaces for any building, structure or use in any district
existing on the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title shall be
deemed a nonconforming use one year after such effective date and then shall be
abated or otherwise brought into conformity with this Title.
   H.   Submission Of Plan: Any application for zoning permit or certificate of
occupancy where no permits are required shall include a plan drawn to scale and
fully dimensioned showing any off-street parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this Title.
   I.   Computation: When determination of off-street parking spaces required
by this Title results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of
less than one-half (1/2) may be disregarded, while a fraction of one-half (1/2)
or more shall be counted as one parking space. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-8-3: LOCATION, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Location: All parking spaces and loading berths required to serve
buildings and structures erected or uses established after the effective date
of the Ordinance codified in this Title shall be located on the same lot as the
building, structure or use served, except when authorized by a special use
permit.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: Minimum parking stall widths shall be eight and
one-half feet (81/2') for angle parking and nine feet (9') for ninety degree
(90°) parking. The minimum stall length is eighteen feet (18'). Other parking
dimensions shall meet the requirements contained in the "Transportation and
Traffic Engineering Handbook", Third Edition, by the Institute of
Transportation Engineers in Table 15.4 Typical Parking Dimensions in Feet and
supporting text.
   C.   Screening: All off-street parking areas of more than three (3) parking
spaces shall be screened by fencing or landscaping on all sides adjoining
property in any residential district.
   D.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas or
loading berths shall be directed away from residential districts in such a way
as not to create a nuisance and downward to reduce the effects of light
pollution on the surrounding area and furthermore shall be in compliance with
subsection 8-4-4J of this Title.
   E.   Design: Required off-street parking areas of more than three (3)
parking spaces shall have individual spaces marked and shall be designed,
maintained and regulated so that no parking or maneuvering incidental to
parking shall be on any public street or walk.
   F.   Vehicle Repair Work: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities or parking
areas.
   G.   Cleaning And Maintenance: No cleaning or maintenance of parking lots or
loading areas utilizing motorized equipment may be performed between eleven
thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. each day, except
snowplowing.
   H.   Off-Street Loading: Spaces allocated to off-street loading facilities
shall not be used to satisfy any off-street parking requirements. (Ord. 90-O-
16, 7-3-1990)
8-8-4: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Retail Businesses: Each retail business shall have one parking space
for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area devoted to retail
sales. Storage areas in such businesses shall not be counted in the calculation
of floor area.
   B.   Manufacturing And Other Businesses: Each manufacturing establishment
and other nonretail businesses shall have the greater of:
      1.   One parking space for each employee on the largest shift, plus a
minimum of three (3) parking spaces for visitors;
      2.   One parking space for each six hundred (600) square feet of gross
floor area plus a minimum of three (3) parking spaces for visitors; or
      3.   One parking space for each vehicle used in the conduct of the
business plus a minimum of three (3) parking spaces for visitors.
   C.   Offices, Research Facilities And Institutional Uses: Offices, research
facilities, and institutional uses shall have the greater of:
      1.   One parking space for each employee plus a minimum of five (5)
parking spaces for visitors;
      2.   One parking space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross
floor area plus a minimum of five (5) parking spaces for visitors; or
      3.   One parking space for each vehicle used in the conduct of the
business plus a minimum of five (5) parking spaces for visitors.
   D.   Schools: All schools shall have one parking space for each employee,
except that each high school shall have one parking space for each employee
plus one parking space for each six (6) students.
   E.   Churches: Each church, chapel, temple or synagogue shall have one
parking space for every four (4) seats in the main worship area. (Ord. 98-O-06,
3-3-1998)
8-8-5: REQUIRED LOADING SPACES:
Each loading berth shall be accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent alley,
service drive or open space on the same zoning lot. Each berth shall be not
less than twelve feet (12') wide by fifty five feet (55') in length, except
that an establishment of less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet may have
a berth not less than twelve feet (12') wide by thirty feet (30') in length.
   A.   Retail Businesses: Each retail business of less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet of gross floor area shall have at least one loading berth.
A retail business with more than forty thousand (40,000) square feet of gross
floor area shall have at least two (2) berths for the first one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area plus at least one berth for
each additional one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area.
   B.   Manufacturing And Other Businesses: Each manufacturing establishment
and other nonretail businesses shall have at least one loading berth for the
first twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, at least one for the second twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet, and at least one for the next thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet of gross floor area. For each additional two hundred
thousand (200,000) square feet of gross floor area, at least one additional
loading berth shall be provided.
   C.   Offices And Research Facilities And Institutional Uses: Offices,
research facilities, and institutional uses shall have at least one loading
berth for each one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area.
   D.   Schools: Each school shall have at least one loading berth of at least
twelve feet (12') wide by fifty five feet (55') long.
   E.   Churches: A church, chapel, temple or synagogue is not required to have
a loading berth unless a use other than those commonly associated with the use
exists at that church, chapel, temple or synagogue, in which case the loading
requirements are the same as for that use. (Ord. 98-O-06, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 9
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Title And Purpose; General Guidelines And Standards
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Permits And Fees
8-9-4: Signs Not Requiring A Permit Or Fee
8-9-5: Temporary Signs Requiring A Permit And Fee
8-9-6: Prohibited Signs
8-9-7: Permanent Signs Requiring A Permit And Fee
8-9-8: Amortization Of Nonconforming Signs
8-9-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE; GENERAL GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Title: This chapter is entitled the VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON SIGN
REGULATIONS and may be referred to as the sign regulations.
   B.   Purpose: The purposes of these sign regulations are:
      1.   To regulate signs that may, by reason of their size, location,
construction or manner of display, endanger the public safety of individuals.
      2.   To regulate signs that may confuse, mislead or obstruct the vision
necessary for traffic safety.
      3.   To regulate signs that may endanger public health, safety, morals
and/or property values.
      4.   To maintain the character of each district as set forth in this
title.
      5.   To encourage and promote businesses and way finding.
      6.   To identify the types of signs which may or may not require
obtaining a permit from the Village prior to installation thereof.
   C.   General Guidelines:
      1.   Signs should be integrated into their surroundings.
      2.   Signs should be designed to reflect the architectural character of
the building or topography and palette of the property.
      3.   The following are further guidelines to encourage signs that are
visually attractive:
         a.   Avoid Clutter: Uncluttered signs are more legible.
         b.   Size: Ensure the sign relates to the building or lot in size.
         c.   Typefaces: Clear, easy to read type is preferable to intricate
lettering.
         d.   Color: Limit colors to a maximum of two (2) or three (3)
complementary tones. Use contrast for lettering and logos to increase
readability.
         e.   Neighborliness: Do not allow signage to obstruct the skyline.
   D.   General Standards:
      1.   Construction Of This Chapter: These sign regulations shall be
construed to the greatest extent possible consistent with the United States
Constitution, the Illinois Constitution, and other applicable State and Federal
laws.
      2.   Compliance With Code: Signs shall be classified and permitted in
accordance with the regulations set forth in this chapter and only those signs
specifically permitted by the text of this chapter shall be permitted. The
classification of signs shall be in accordance with the various use districts
designated now or hereafter established in this title and shall be subject to
further restrictions by all application provisions of this Code.
      3.   Signs Permitted By Zoning District: Traffic control signs, including
digital and/or electronic signs for this purpose, and Municipal way finding
signs, directional signs, traffic signals and/or devices, legal notices,
railroad crossing signs, danger signs, temporary emergency and event signs,
public utility signs, and other similar signs are permitted in every zoning
district.
         a.   Residential Districts: Only temporary signs, signs located on
property owned and maintained by a residential condominium association or by a
homeowners' association, or exempt signs are allowed in R-5, R-2 and R-
1 Residential Districts.
         b.   Business, Manufacturing And Office Districts: Signs are a
permitted use in the B Business District, M Manufacturing and O Office
District.
         c.   Conservation District: Only temporary and ground/monument signs
are allowed in a C Conservation District.
      4.   Signs Prohibited In Any Public Right-Of-Way: No signs, other than
Municipal signs, shall be permitted on any public property or within any public
right-of-way.
      5.   Traffic Control Signs: Traffic control signs, traffic signals, and/
or safety warnings, whether within a public right-of-way, on private property
owned by a residential condominium association or homeowners' association, or
on private property owned by a commercial development, are exempt from these
sign regulations.
      6.   Relationship To Site: All sign(s) located on private property must
relate in some manner to the use(s), occupant(s), and/or activity(ies) which
are occupying, are located on and/or are occurring on the private property on
which the sign(s) are located.
      7.   Abandoned Signs: Any sign which identifies a use, occupancy, and/or
activity no longer being conducted or a product no longer being sold shall be
removed by the owner of the property or the person having occupancy of and/or
control over the property upon which such sign is located, within thirty (30)
calendar days after written notification from the Enforcement Officer, subject
to the following:
         a.   Conforming Sign: If a structure is vacant for a period of thirty
(30) calendar days or longer, any conforming sign(s) related to its use shall
be removed.
         b.   Nonconforming Sign: If a structure is vacant for a period of
thirty (30) calendar days or longer, any nonconforming sign(s) related to its
use shall be removed.
      8.   Removal Of Illegal Nonconforming Signs: Any sign that is in
violation of these sign regulations and is erected after the effective date
hereof is hereby classified as "illegal and nonconforming". Whenever the
Enforcement Officer determines that an illegal and nonconforming sign exists,
he or she shall notify the person displaying such sign by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. Such person shall, within ten (10)
calendar days, either remove the sign or initiate such action as is necessary
to cause the sign to comply with these sign regulations, including applying for
any required permit. The running of such ten (10) calendar day period shall be
suspended during the time any application for a permit, or any appeal from the
notice, or any application for a variation is pending.
      9.   Maintenance; Damage To Nonconforming Signs: Normal maintenance of
signs, including necessary non-structural and non-electrical repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming
features of the sign, is permitted during any amortization period or the period
in which permit applications are pending. However, no structural alterations,
enlargement or extensions nor any electrical modifications shall be made to a
sign unless the alteration will result in eliminating the nonconforming
features of the sign. If a sign is damaged or destroyed by any means to the
extent of fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value or fifty percent (50%)
of its surface area, the sign may not be rebuilt or used thereafter unless it
conforms to all of the provisions of these sign regulations.
      10.   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: If the Enforcement Officer finds that
any sign is unsafe or unsecure, or constitutes a danger to the public, or has
been constructed or erected, or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or other provisions of the zoning regulations or
this Code, he or she shall give written notice to the owner of the premises. If
the owner fails to make corrections or fails to remove or alter the sign within
thirty (30) calendar days after said notice, the sign may be removed by the
Enforcement Officer at the expense of the owner of the property upon which such
sign is located. However, the Enforcement Officer may cause any sign that is an
immediate and imminent peril to persons or property to be removed summarily
with or without notice. Any expense incidental thereto shall be paid by the
owner of the property on which the sign is located.
      11.   Signs Not To Constitute Traffic Hazard Or Cause Glare: No sign,
whether exempt or non-exempt, whether temporary or permanent, and whether
conforming or nonconforming with respect to this chapter, shall be erected or
maintained in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or as to
distract the attention of the driver of any vehicle, bicyclist, and/or
pedestrian by reason of the position, shape or other characteristics thereof.
         a.   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to be
likely to interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or in such a manner as to cause
glare on any public area or on any residential property.
         b.   No sign shall make use of the words "Stop", "Go", "Look", "Slow",
"Danger", or any other similar word, phrase, symbol, or character; and no sign
shall employ any red, yellow, orange, green or other colored lamp or light in
such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
         c.   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to
interfere with safe sight lines of drivers, bicyclists, and/or pedestrians
using any public right-of-way or using any other public property.
      12.   Change Of Use Or Name Of Occupant To Nonconforming Signs: No
nonconforming sign shall be changed to another nonconforming sign except that
the letters, words, and/or symbols of a nonconforming sign may be changed by
replacing nonstructural components on which the letters, words, and/or symbols
are displayed, such as a panel or insert, which panel or insert must comply
with all current regulations. No part of a nonconforming sign's supporting
structure, electrical, or lighting equipment shall be replaced or modified so
as to extend the life of the sign.
      13.   Location: Signs shall be located only on the property of the owner
of the sign or on other property where the owner of the property has consented
to display of such sign.
      14.   Lighting Standards:
         a.   In residential zoning districts, signs may be illuminated only by
indirect lighting, or backlighting, which lighting shall, in any event, not
exceed fifty (50) foot candles when measured with a standard light meter held
parallel to the face of the sign at a distance equal to the narrowest dimension
of the sign face. In other zoning districts, internal illumination of signs
shall be permitted.
         b.   All lighting of any sign shall concentrate the illumination upon
the display surface of the sign to prevent glare onto any street or adjacent
property, and shields and/or reflectors shall be used where necessary for this
purpose.
         c.   Freestanding signs which are illuminated shall receive their
electrical supply from an electrical source that is underground, and overhead
electrical lines to such signs are prohibited.
         d.   After completion of installation and before the sign is
illuminated for regular use, the sign shall be inspected by the Village and
approved in writing to determine whether such sign complies with these sign
regulations and with the approved permit, plans and specifications therefor,
and to confirm that the direction of the lighting does not: 1) interfere with
the vision of drivers on any nearby road, street or highway, or 2) cause any
excess illumination on any property used for residential purposes. (Ord. 2018-
O-1, 1-2-2018)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
See section
8-2-2 of this title for definitions related to this chapter. (Ord. 2018-O-1, 1-
2-2018)
8-9-3: PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permanent Or Temporary Sign Permit Required: Except as exempted by
section
8-9-4 of this chapter:
      1.   Permanent Sign: No person shall erect, construct, alter, repair,
change, maintain and/or relocate any permanent sign without first obtaining a
building permit from the Village for the work, provided, however, no permit
shall be required for changing the letters, words, and/or symbols on any sign
which includes a changeable copy panel or for the repainting of an existing
sign.
      2.   Temporary Sign Requiring A Permit: No person shall erect, construct,
alter, repair, change, maintain and/or relocate any temporary sign requiring a
permit without first obtaining a temporary sign permit from the Village.
   B.   Permit Fees: Every applicant, before being granted a permit under this
chapter, shall pay to the Village the applicable fee or fees set forth in this
Code.
   C.   Variations, Special Use Permits, And Appeals:
      1.   Variations And Special Use Permits: Requests for variations from
this chapter and/or special use permits which may be granted pursuant to this
chapter shall first be the subject of a public hearing before the Plan
Commission, after which the Plan Commission shall make and forward a report
and, if possible, a recommendation for approval or disapproval, to the Village
President and Board of Trustees. If the Board of Trustees decides to approve
any such request for variation(s) and/or for a special use permit(s), such
approval(s) must be granted by ordinance.
      2.   Appeals: Appeals relative to the interpretation of the language of
this chapter shall be heard by the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2018-
O-1, 1-2-2018)
8-9-4: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT OR FEE:
The following signs are exempt from the permit and fee requirements of this
chapter ("exempt signs"), provided that they comply with all other applicable
requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Municipal Signs: Municipal signs as defined in section
8-9-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Certain Small Signs Located On Private Property:
      1.   Size And Quantity Limited: Any permanent or temporary sign located
on private property with the consent of the owner of the property, which sign
does not exceed Six (6) square feet in display surface area shall be exempt
from this chapter, provided, however, not in excess of three (3) such signs
shall be erected or maintained on any one zoning lot or parcel and shall not be
included in the other surface area limitations of this Chapter.
      2.   Changes To Signs Not Requiring Permit(s) Or Fee(s): Although a
permit shall generally be required for the installation of any permanent sign
on private property, including but not limited to an electronic or manual
changeable copy sign, no permit shall be required for the following:
         a.   Changing letters, words, and/or symbols on any sign that includes
a changeable copy panel.
         b.   Normal repairs, including the repainting of an existing sign.
   C.   Certain Larger Temporary Signs In Residential Zoning Districts: Any
temporary sign shall be exempt from the permit and fee requirements of this
chapter if it is located on private property within any zoning district of the
Village, other than within the B, M or O Zoning District, and if it also meets
all of the following standards as set forth in this subsection C:
      1.   Surface Area Per Sign: The surface area of any single temporary sign
shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet, except that any single temporary
sign located on the property of a homeowners' association or the property of a
residential condominium association shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square
feet in surface area.
      2.   Gross Surface Area: The gross surface area of all such temporary
signs located on any private lot or parcel shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in the aggregate, except that such surface area limitation shall
not be applicable to temporary signs located on the property of a homeowners'
association or on the property of a residential condominium association shall
be forty-eight (48) square feet.
      3.   Height: No such temporary sign shall exceed six feet (6') in height.
      4.   Illumination: Such temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      5.   Traffic Safety: No temporary sign, whether exempt or non-exempt,
shall be placed so as to interfere with traffic safety.
   D.   Flags: Flags which are less than fifteen (15) square feet in surface
area.
   E.   Integral Decorative Or Architectural Features: Integral decorative or
architectural features of buildings, including but not limited to clocks.
   F.   Interior Signs: Signs or other displays visible from the exterior of a
building or structure through a window of such building or structure but not
affixed or attached to or blocking such window. (Ord. 2018-O-1, 1-2-2018; Ord.
2019-O-12, 12-10-2019)
8-9-5: TEMPORARY SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT AND FEE:
   A.   Permit Required For Certain Temporary Signs: Except as provided in
section 8-9-4 of this chapter, no person shall erect, construct, alter, repair,
change, maintain and/or relocate any non-exempt temporary sign located on any
private property within the B, M or O Zoning Districts without first obtaining
a temporary sign permit from the Village.
   B.   Location:
      1.   No temporary sign, whether exempt or non-exempt, shall be placed or
projected over any wall opening, including but not limited to any window or
door.
      2.   No temporary sign, whether exempt or non-exempt, shall be erected so
as to prevent free ingress into or egress from any door, window or fire escape,
nor shall such sign be attached to any standpipe or fire escape.
      3.   No temporary sign, whether exempt or non-exempt, shall be attached
to any utility pole, fire hydrant, or Municipal sign.
      4.   No temporary sign, whether exempt or non-exempt, shall be located so
as to interfere with snow removal.
      5.   No temporary sign shall be placed within any public right-of-way or
on any other public property without the written consent of the public entity
owning and/or having maintenance jurisdiction over such public right-of-way or
other public area.
      6.   No temporary sign, whether exempt or non-exempt, shall be placed or
maintained so as to interfere with traffic safety.
   C.   Gross Surface Area: Except as otherwise provided by Subsections D1, D2,
and D3 of this section, the gross surface area of all such temporary signs on
any private lot or parcel shall not at any time exceed, in the aggregate,
forty-eight (48) square feet if located within the B, M or O Zoning Districts.
   D.   Type, Size, Number, Duration: With respect to this Subsection D, the
specific categories of signs listed in the Table below are subject to the
aggregate maximum of forty-eight (48) square feet as set forth in Subsection C
above, but for those signs listed in the Table below, the respective specific
maximum size limitations stated in said Table shall also be applicable to such
signs. Therefore, the display of any of the following temporary signs shall
comply with the following additional provisions:
 
                                       Maximum Number Of
Type Of Sign       Maximum             Signs Of This Type Permitted
                   Size Restrictions   Permitted Per Lot  Duration Of Display
                                       Or Parcel
                   A maximum of 10
                   square feet in
                   surface area and a
                   maximum of 8 feet
                   in height. When
                   displayed on a
1. Banners, flags: permanent flagpole, 2
   freestanding    the height of the                      All of these D1, D2
                   flagpole shall not                     and/or D3 types of
                   exceed the maximum                     temporary signs may
                   permitted height                       be displayed not
                   for any structure                      more than 90 days
                   in the applicable                      within any 12 month
                   zoning district.                       period. No more than
                   A maximum of 10                        2 of these D1, D2
   Banners, flags: square feet in                         and/or D3 signs
2. wall-mounted    surface area and a  1                  shall be permitted
                   maximum of 8 feet                      to be displayed on
                   in height.                             the same zoning lot
                                                          or parcel at the
                                                          same time.
                                                          Notwithstanding the
                                                          foregoing, the U.S.
                                                          Flag Code shall be
                   A maximum of 10                        applicable to the
                   square feet in                         display of all flags
3. Sandwich boards surface area, and a 1                  of the United States
                   maximum of 8 feet                      of America.
                   in height.
 
   E.   Materials And Design: The following types of on-site temporary signage
as listed and depicted below shall be permitted pursuant to this section. All
other types of signs, including, but not limited to, string flags, foam core,
wheeled and trailered signs, and paper signs shall be prohibited unless
expressly permitted by separate Village ordinance.
      1.   Stand-alone fabric banners and flags, similar to those depicted
below, are permitted.
   FABRIC BANNERS AND FLAGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2222.jpg]
      2.   Aluminum and other metal signs, similar to those depicted below, are
permitted.
   METAL SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2224.jpg]
      3.   Wood, metal, heavy duty sandwich and announcement boards, similar to
those depicted below, are permitted.
   SANDWICH BOARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2228.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/IMAGES/0-0-0-2233.jpg]
   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2226.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2018-O-1, 1-2-2018; Ord. 2019-O-12, 12-10-2019)
8-9-6: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are prohibited in all zoning districts within the Village:
   A.   Roof signs, with the exception of certain areas of mansard roofs (see
subsection
8-9-7D, "Wall Signs", of this chapter);
   B.   Billboards and/or off-site signage, temporary or permanent, unless
otherwise expressly permitted by these sign regulations; and/or
   C.   Vehicle signs;
   D.   Tethered airborne signs and balloons;
   E.   Beacons;
   F.   Inflatables;
   G.   Signs on trailers and other portable signs. (Ord. 2018-O-1, 1-2-2018)
8-9-7: PERMANENT SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT AND A FEE:
   A.   Master Sign Plans:
      1.   Purpose: The Master Sign Plan is a device employed to ensure an
appropriate balance between architecture, signage and neighborhood aesthetics.
As projects grow in size, opportunities increase for effective signage other
than as specified in this chapter and other applicable ordinances of the
Village. Larger setbacks and multi-tenant conditions offer opportunities for
better regulation of the number, size, proportion and balance of signs. A
Master Sign Plan, if approved by the Board of Trustees, shall be approved in
the same manner as other variation(s) and/or special use permit(s) as provided
in subsection
8-9-3C1 of this chapter.
      2.   Uses Requiring Master Sign Plans: Master Sign Plans are required for
the following uses:
         a.   Uses occupying a building which is larger than five thousand
(5,000) square feet in ground floor area.
         b.   Any nonresidential development on sites of five (5) acres or
larger.
         c.   Any nonresidential development with four (4) or more
nonresidential occupants.
      3.   Design Guidelines:
         a.   Implementation will provide signage compatible with the
surrounding development.
         b.   Implementation will provide signage consistent with the
architecture and site plan characteristics of the proposed development.
         c.   Signs should be consistent with one another in terms of color,
materials, font, and overall design. A thematic approach is expected.
         d.   Implementation of the Master Sign Plan should result in a
substantial reduction in the number and area of freestanding signs associated
with the project.
      4.   Other Signs: Other signs which are required to be included in Master
Sign Plans are as follows:
         a.   Wall and ground signs, way finding and directional signs.
         b.   Other signs not specified in this chapter.
   B.   Ground And Monument Signs:
      1.   Sign Construction: All ground and monument signs shall have a
surface or facing of incombustible or approved combustible material; provided,
however, that combustible structural trim may be used. All letters, figures,
characters or representations in cutout or irregular form, maintained in
conjunction with, attached to or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and
securely built or attached to the sign structure and shall comply with all
requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Bracing, Anchorage, Supports: All ground and monument signs shall be
securely built, constructed and erected upon posts and standards sunk at least
four feet (4') below the natural surface of the ground. When deemed necessary
for the protection of the traveling public or to otherwise render a sign safe,
the Enforcement Officer may require the submission of a certification of safety
from a registered structural engineer or architect. All posts, anchors and
bracing of wood shall be treated to protect them from moisture by creosoting or
other approved methods when they rest upon or enter the ground.
      3.   Height: Such a permanent sign shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height above the centerline datum elevation of the street the sign faces,
except as provided in subsection C2 of this section.
      4.   Location:
         a.   Electric Power: No permanent ground or monument sign shall be
located within an eight foot (8') radius of any electric power line, service
drops or line conductors or in any location where the Enforcement Officer finds
a reasonable danger that an electric power line would come in contact with such
sign.
         b.   Adjoining Property Or Street: No permanent ground or monument
sign shall be nearer than six feet (6') to any sign, building or structure on
adjoining premises and shall not be nearer than three feet (3') from any right-
of-way, except as otherwise provided in subsection B5 of this section.
      5.   Size And Number Of Signs: Each lot or parcel of land under one
ownership or use may have not more than one permanent ground or monument sign,
except that any lot or parcel with a frontage on a public right-of-way of three
hundred fifty feet (350') or more may have two (2) permanent ground or monument
signs located not less than two hundred fifty feet (250') apart; provided,
however, in no event shall more than two (2) permanent ground or monument signs
be permitted. The maximum surface area of such a sign shall be based upon lot
frontage as follows:
 
Lot Frontage                            Maximum Size Of Each Display Surface
                                        Area
50 feet or less                         25 square feet
                                        25 square feet plus 1 square foot of
Over 50 feet but not more than 100 feet sign for each 5 feet over 50 feet or
                                        major fraction of lot frontage
Over 100 feet but not more than 250     35 square feet plus 2 square feet of
feet                                    sign area for each 5 feet over 100 feet
                                        or major fraction of lot frontage
Over 250 feet                           100 square feet, which is the maximum
                                        allowed
 
When two (2) ground or monument signs are permitted on one lot or parcel, the
maximum surface area of each sign shall be as set forth in the foregoing table.
In case of a corner lot or a multiple frontage lot, one street (but not both)
may be designated for the purpose of frontage measurement, providing the sign
faces or will face the street so designated for frontage purposes.
      6.   Premises To Be Kept Clean; Responsibility For Maintenance Of
Permanent Sign(s): The premises upon which any ground and monument signs are
located and the premises surrounding the same shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition and free of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds,
and free of any other offensive condition. It shall be the joint and several
responsibility of the owner(s) of a permanent sign and the owner(s) of the
property upon which any such sign is located to maintain in good condition said
permanent sign and the associated lighting, if any.
   C.   Permanent Signs Located On Property Owned By And/Or Maintained By A
Residential Condominium Association Or By A Homeowners' Association:
      1.   Construction: All such signs shall be permanent monument ground
signs, directional, or wayfinding signs, or traffic signs.
      2.   Height: All permanent monument ground signs shall not exceed eight
feet (8') in height and shall be mounted at grade.
      3.   Size: Any permanent sign located on property owned by a residential
condominium association and/or a homeowners' association shall not exceed
forty-eight (48) square feet in area.
      4.   Illumination: External illumination by indirect lighting or
backlighting of a permanent sign located on property owned by a residential
condominium association and/or homeowners' association is permitted, subject to
the condition that the plans for such illumination shall be approved in writing
in advance by the Village Administrator, or his designee, but internal
illumination of such signs, or the letters of such signs, is not permitted.
      5.   Certain Nonconforming Signs Of A Residential Condominium Association
And/Or A Homeowners' Association: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
chapter to the contrary, any permanent monument sign of a residential
condominium association and/or of a homeowners' association which is
nonconforming with respect to this chapter because such monument sign is
located in or partially located in a public right-of-way may remain at its
present location until and unless rebuilt unless:
         a.   The Enforcement Officer at any time determines that such
permanent sign represents a potential hazard to vehicular traffic in any
Village right-of-way; or
         b.   With respect to any such sign located in a public right-of- way
of the State or of the County, such sign may remain until and unless such
governmental entity having jurisdiction over such public right-of-way requires
the removal of such monument sign from such public right-of-way.
   D.   Permanent Wall Signs:
      1.   Construction: All permanent wall signs shall have a surface or
facing of incombustible material.
      2.   Height: No such permanent wall sign shall protrude or extend above
the lowest point of the roof of the building or structure. Signs shall not be
installed on mansard roofs.
      3.   Location: No such permanent wall sign, except a sign exempted by
this chapter, shall be erected in any residential district, as defined in this
title. No permanent wall sign shall protrude or extend above the lowest point
of the roof of the building or structure. Mansard roof sections that are below
the roofline, shall be considered part of that wall. Mansard roof sections that
are higher than the roofline, shall be considered part of that roof.
      4.   Projection Into Public Right-Of-Way: No such permanent wall sign
shall be permitted to project into or over any public right-of-way or other
public property.
      5.   Obstructions To Doors And Windows: No such permanent wall sign shall
be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress into or
egress from any door, window or fire escape. No wall sign shall cover wholly or
partially any wall opening, including but not limited to any window or door.
      6.   Size: The maximum size of any such permanent wall sign shall be
twenty five percent (25%) of the square foot area of the wall to which it is
affixed or the maximum size allowed for a ground sign on the same site,
whichever is smaller.
      7.   Number Of Signs: Not more than one wall on any building may be used
for a permanent wall sign except that any two (2) walls of a building located
on a corner lot or on a multiple frontage lot may be used for a permanent wall
sign. If a building has more than one occupant entity, one sign shall be
permitted for and to each such occupant entity, provided, however, that the
provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to permit permanent signs
which in the aggregate exceed the size specifications for permanent wall signs.
   E.   Allowances: To incentivize quality design and materials, the following
allowances shall apply to the sign types designed below if it is determined by
the Enforcement Officer that all applicable bonus requirements have been met as
set forth below:
 
Sign Type  Bonus Requirements                   Bonus
           Exterior mounted downlighting, i.e.,
           gooseneck lighting, not a light box,
           and the use of channelized, high
           contrast lettering and quality
Wall signs materials, such as brushed metal and 20 percent added surface area
           wood. All of the above bonus
           requirements are applicable to wall
           signs, and the sign must otherwise
           meet all applicable requirements of
           this chapter.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2235.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type    Bonus Requirements                   Bonus
             External downcast, channel, or
             focused uplighting in lieu of the
             use of 1 or more light boxes. Use of
             high contrast lettering and quality
             materials in a natural color scheme.
             The addition of architectural
             elements such as brushed metal,
Ground signs stone, faux stone, and wood, and a   20 percent added surface area
             landscape plan incorporating native
             grasses, shrubs and flowers. All of
             the above bonus requirements are
             applicable to ground signs, and the
             sign must otherwise meet all
             applicable requirements of this
             chapter.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2237.jpg]
 
   F.   Window Signs: Window signs, whether temporary or permanent, shall not
occupy a total of more than twenty five percent (25%) of any surface of any
exterior window or any exterior door or any surface of the glass portion of any
exterior door or any glass surface.
   G.   Special Use Required For Digital Signs, Digital Displays, And Moving
And Spinning Signs:
      1.   Such signs shall not be allowed in any residential zoning district
and shall be allowed only when authorized pursuant to a special use permit and
shall be subject to the following regulations without any limitation on
additional regulations and restrictions as may be provided in the special use
ordinance, which may include specific limits on the hours of operation of any
such sign or display.
      2.   Each message shall be displayed at least ten (10) seconds before the
next message is displayed.
      3.   There shall be a time delay of no less than two (2) seconds between
complete messages and there shall be no time delay between frames of a single
message.
      4.   Scrolling of messages and/or animation is prohibited.
      5.   The letters, words, and/or symbols shall be designed and located so
that the entire message is legible to motorists intended to view it.
      6.   The sign shall be constructed from non-reflective materials and
illuminated in a manner that does not create a glare.
      7.   The amount of text shall be limited so as to display a message that
is legible to motorists intended to view it.
      8.   The digital sign must have installed an ambient light monitor which
shall continuously monitor and automatically adjust the brightness level of the
display based on ambient light conditions consistent with the other applicable
provisions of this section.
      9.   Maximum brightness levels for digital signs shall not exceed two-
tenths (0.2) footcandles over ambient light levels measured within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of the sign. Certification must be provided to the Village
demonstrating that the sign has been pre-set to automatically adjust the
brightness to these levels or lower. Reinspection and recalibration shall be
annually required by the Village, in its reasonable discretion, at the
permittee's expense to ensure that the specified brightness levels are
maintained at all times. The results of such reinspection and recalibration
and/or any resulting remediatory work on said digital sign shall be promptly
provided to the Village.
      10.   Brightness of digital signs shall be measured as follows:
         a.   At least thirty (30) minutes following sunset, a footcandle meter
shall be used to obtain an ambient light reading for the location. This is done
while the sign is off or displaying black copy. The reading shall be made with
the meter aimed directly at the sign area at the pre-set location.
         b.   The sign shall then be turned on to full white copy to take
another reading with the meter at the same location.
   H.   Canopies And Awnings:
      1.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this subsection shall
apply only to canopies and awnings which include letters, words, and/or symbols
which direct attention to an object, product, place, activity, person,
institution, organization or business.
      2.   Height: All canopies and awnings shall be constructed and erected so
that the lowest portion of the projecting frame shall be not less than seven
feet six inches (7'6") and the lowest portion of the extending skirt shall be
not less than six feet eight inches (6'8") above the grade of the ground
surface below.
      3.   Location: No canopy or awning shall extend over any public right-of-
way or other public property, and no canopy or awning shall be located closer
than eighteen inches (18") from the curb of any adjacent street.
      4.   Width: No canopy shall extend more than two feet (2') from each side
of the entrance of the building to which it is attached.
      5.   Permits And Inspection: Permits for all canopies and awnings shall
be required as provided for signs and all canopies and awnings shall be
inspected as required for other signs which extend over a public area.
      6.   Certain Canopies And Awnings Considered Wall Signs: In addition to
being subject to all other applicable requirements of this chapter, any canopy
or awning which includes letters, words, and/or symbols which direct attention
to an object, project, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business shall be considered a wall sign and shall be subject to all applicable
provisions of subsection D of this section. The perimeter outline of such
awning or canopy shall be considered its external dimensions as a wall sign.
   I.   Clocks: This chapter shall apply to clocks or other time pieces erected
on the exterior of any building or structure.
      1.   Construction: All clocks shall be constructed of noncombustible
material, including the frames, braces and supports.
      2.   Regulation Size Of Dial: The dial of a clock shall be not more than
forty two inches (42") in diameter.
      3.   Glass: Any glass forming a part of a clock or sign shall be safety
glass of at least one-fourth inch (1/4") thick or an approved plastic securely
held in place.
      4.   Cover Or Service Opening To Be Secured: Any cover or service opening
of a street clock shall be securely fastened by metal hinges.
      5.   Location: Clocks supported on any building or structure shall not be
less than seven feet six inches (7'6") above the sidewalk and shall not project
from the face or wall of the building or structure by more than twelve inches
(12"). No clocks shall be erected on or over any public area.
      6.   Erection Of Clocks On Walls: All clocks affixed to the exterior of
any building or structure shall comply with the requirements set forth in the
provisions regulating wall signs.
      7.   Letters, Words Or Symbols On Clock: Any clock which contains
letters, words, or symbols shall be considered a wall sign which shall be
subject to the requirements and limitations of subsection D of this section.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, 1-2-2018; Ord. 2019-O-12, 12-10-2019)
8-9-8: AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
All signs that become nonconforming by the application of the provisions of
this chapter, shall be removed, altered or repaired so as to conform with the
provisions of this chapter within sixty (60) months (the "amortization period")
of written notification from the Village, provided, however, this amortization
period shall not be applicable to temporary signs, and the provisions of this
chapter shall be applicable immediately to all such temporary signs. (Ord.
2018-O-1, 1-2-2018)
CHAPTER 10
VARIANCES AND SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Board Of Trustees Empowered
8-10-2: Hearing Required; Notice
8-10-3: Approval Of Zoning Board Of Appeals
8-10-4: Findings Of Fact
8-10-5: Requirements For Approval
8-10-6: Special Uses
8-10-1: BOARD OF TRUSTEES EMPOWERED:
The board of trustees may determine and vary the application of the regulations
of this title in harmony with their general purpose and intent and may amend
the village of Lake Barrington zoning map in accordance with the rules
contained herein. (Ord. 99-O-04, 2-2-1999)
8-10-2: HEARING REQUIRED; NOTICE:
   A.   Public Notice: The power to determine and approve variations shall be
exercised only by the adoption of ordinances. Variations shall be made only in
a specified case and after a public meeting before the zoning board of appeals
of which there shall be a notice of the time and place of the hearing published
at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) calendar
days before the meeting in a newspaper published in the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then in a newspaper with a general circulation
within the village. The notice shall contain the particular location for which
the proposed variation is requested as well as a brief statement of what the
proposed variation will do.
   B.   Affidavit To Be Filed: The petitioner(s) for any variation shall file
with the village administrator an affidavit identifying the owners of all
property, whether under the jurisdiction of a municipality or within an
unincorporated area, within one thousand feet (1,000'), excluding rights of way
of public streets, in each direction from all points on the perimeter of the
property which is the subject of their petition (and the respective permanent
index numbers of such properties), and said affidavit shall in any event
include at least the six (6) nearest property owners (and the respective
permanent index numbers of such properties) within the village; provided,
however, that for the purpose of this section, ownership may be determined on
the basis of the last available tax records of the county. The petitioner(s)
shall also provide to the village administrator, along with the required
affidavit, prestamped envelopes (without any return address) addressed to each
owner listed on such affidavit and, in addition, the petitioner(s) shall also
provide one copy of all of the tax map(s) covering all permanent index numbers
listed on such affidavit in the same scale as maintained by the Lake County
clerk's map department. The village administrator will send written notice by
U.S. mail, at the petitioner's expense, not less than fifteen (15) days prior
to the initial date of the public hearing thereon, to those persons identified
in said affidavit.
   C.   Public Hearing Notification Signs Required:
      1.   Signs Required: In addition to any other notice that may be required
by this section, the petitioner(s) shall be responsible for posting the sign(s)
on the subject property informing the general public of the initial date of the
upcoming public hearing. The required sign(s) shall be obtained from the
village administrator for use by the petitioner(s).
      2.   Content Of Each Sign: Each sign shall contain the following
information with all required lettering a minimum of two inches (2") in height:
   VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
   CONCERNING THIS PROPERTY TO BE
   HELD AT [INSERT TIME]
   ON [INSERT DAY, DATE, AND YEAR]
   AT THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
   MUNICIPAL CENTER
   23860 N. OLD BARRINGTON ROAD
   FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL
   (847) 381-6010
   SUBJECT: [INSERT BRIEF DESCRIPTION]
      3.   Size: Each sign shall have at least one display surface which shall
have a minimum dimension of four feet (4') in height and four feet (4') in
width.
      4.   Placement Of Signs: One public hearing notification sign shall be
posted on the subject property at a location oriented to and readable from the
nearest adjacent roadway. However, additional signs shall be required where a
parcel abuts two (2) or more roadways, and in such cases, one such sign shall
be oriented to and shall be readable from each abutting roadway. Such signs
must be constructed of materials which will withstand existing area weather
conditions.
      5.   Duration; Removal: Public hearing notification signs must be posted
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the scheduled
public hearing on the petition or application, and shall not be removed by the
village or by the petitioner(s) until after the initial date of the scheduled
public hearing on the petition or application.
      6.   Reimbursement: Prior to the initial date of the scheduled public
hearing on the petition or application, the petitioner(s) shall reimburse the
village for the actual out of pocket expenses incurred or to be incurred by the
village for the fabrication, erection, and removal of the sign or signs
required by this section. The petitioner(s) shall also post a cash bond for
each sign with the village for use of the required signs as specified from time
to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. Said bond shall be refunded to the petitioner(s) upon
return of the sign within ten (10) days following the conclusion of the hearing
for which the sign was posted. In the event that the sign is not returned to
the village within ten (10) days of the completion of the scheduled hearing for
which the sign was posted, the bond shall be forfeited with the fee applying to
the cost of replacement of such sign.
      7.   Rules: The village administrator is authorized and empowered to
establish such reasonable rules and regulations governing the posting of
notification signs not inconsistent with the provisions of this section to
carry out the intent of this section to provide notice of proposed hearings
which rules may be necessary due to unique characteristics of the subject
property or application.
   D.   Failure To Comply: Any failure to comply with subsections A, B and/or C
of this section shall not invalidate any action taken by the village on any
such petition or application. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
8-10-3: APPROVAL OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
After the public hearing and upon the report of the zoning board of appeals,
the board of trustees, by ordinance, without further public hearing may adopt
any proposed variation or may refer it back to the zoning board of appeals for
further consideration. Any proposed variation which fails to receive the
approval of the zoning board of appeals shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the trustees of the village. (Ord.
90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-10-4: FINDINGS OF FACT:
All variations shall be accompanied by findings of fact specifying the reason
or reasons for making the variation. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-10-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL:
Variations shall be recommended by the zoning board of appeals and approved by
the board of trustees only if the evidence shows that all of the following
provisions have been carefully considered and satisfied:
   A.   Essential Nature: The variation, if granted, will not alter the
essential nature of the village.
   B.   Hardship: A particular hardship to the owner would result because of
the physical surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of the specific
property if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out. Mere
inconvenience is not sufficient grounds for granting a variation or exception.
   C.   Unique Conditions: The conditions upon which the request for a
variation is based are unique to the property for which the variation is sought
and are not applicable generally to other property.
   D.   Purpose: The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively or
primarily upon a desire to make more money from the property.
   E.   Adjacent Property: The variation, if granted, will not be a substantial
detriment to adjacent property.
   F.   Public Health And Safety: The granting of the variation will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or injurious to other
property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
   G.   Special Circumstances: The special circumstances or conditions have not
resulted from any act of the applicant subsequent to the effective date hereof.
   H.   Use Of Land: The variation is the minimum adjustment necessary for the
reasonable use of the land. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-10-6: SPECIAL USES:
This zoning title is based upon the division of the village into districts
within any one of which the use of land and buildings, and location of
buildings or structures as related to the land are essentially uniform. It is
recognized, however, that there are certain uses and special uses, which,
because of their unique character, cannot be properly classified in any
particular district or districts without consideration, in each case, of the
impact of those uses upon neighboring lands and upon the public need for the
particular use in the particular location. Such special uses by the nature of
their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact
upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   A.   Special Use Permit: Certain specified special uses are allowed in the
various districts if approved by the board of trustees. Such approval requires
a grant of a special use permit by ordinance. Unless otherwise specifically
provided by the provisions of a special use permit for a particular development
or use, after the approval of the special use permit, no extensions,
alterations or modifications of the terms, conditions, restriction and
requirements of such special use permit or the exhibits thereto shall be made
unless and until the special use permit is amended following the same
procedures as required for the original approval of such special use permit.
   B.   Hearing Before Plan Commission; Notice:
      1.   Hearing Notice Published: The power to determine and approve zoning
map amendments and special use permits shall be exercised only by the adoption
of ordinances. Special use permits and zoning map amendments shall be made only
in a specified case and after a public meeting before the plan commission of
which there shall be notice of the time and place of the hearing published at
least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) calendar days
before the meeting in a newspaper published in the village, or if no newspaper
is published therein, then in a newspaper with a general circulation within the
village. The notice shall contain the particular location for which the
proposed special use permit and/or zoning map amendment is requested as well as
a brief statement of what the proposed special use permit will allow if
granted.
      2.   Hearing Notice Mailed: The petitioner(s) for any special use permit
and/or any zoning map amendment shall file with the village administrator an
affidavit identifying the owners of all property, whether under the
jurisdiction of a municipality or within an unincorporated area, within one
thousand feet (1,000'), excluding rights of way of public streets, in each
direction from all points on the perimeter of the property which is the subject
of their petition (and the respective permanent index numbers of such
properties), and said affidavit shall in any event include at least the six (6)
nearest property owners (and the respective permanent index numbers of such
properties) within the village; provided, however, that for the purpose of this
section, ownership may be determined on the basis of the last available tax
records of the county. The petitioner(s) shall also provide to the village
administrator, along with the required affidavit, prestamped envelopes (without
any return address) addressed to each owner listed on such affidavit and, in
addition, the petitioner(s) shall also provide one copy of all of the tax map
(s) covering all permanent index numbers listed on such affidavit in the same
scale as maintained by the Lake County clerk’s map department. The village
administrator will send written notice by U.S. mail, at the petitioner’s
expense, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the
public hearing thereon, to those persons identified in said affidavit.
      3.   Public Hearing Notification Signs Required:
         a.   Signs Required: In addition to any other notice that may be
required by this section, the petitioner(s) shall be responsible for posting
the sign(s) on the subject property informing the general public of the initial
date of the upcoming public hearing. The required sign(s) shall be obtained
from the village administrator for use by the petitioner(s).
         b.   Content Of Each Sign: Each sign shall contain the following
information with all required lettering a minimum of two inches (2") in height:
VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
PLAN COMMISSION
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
CONCERNING THIS PROPERTY TO BE
HELD AT [INSERT TIME]
ON [INSERT DAY, DATE, AND YEAR]
AT THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
MUNICIPAL CENTER
23860 N. OLD BARRINGTON ROAD
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL
(847) 381-6010
SUBJECT: [INSERT BRIEF DESCRIPTION]
         c.   Size: Each sign shall have at least one display surface which
shall have a minimum dimension of four feet (4') in height and four feet (4')
in width.
         d.   Placement Of Signs: One public hearing notification sign shall be
posted on the subject property at a location oriented to and readable from the
nearest adjacent roadway. However, additional signs shall be required where a
parcel abuts two (2) or more roadways, and in such cases, one such sign shall
be oriented to and shall be readable from each abutting roadway. Such signs
must be constructed of materials which will withstand existing area weather
conditions.
         e.   Duration; Removal: Public hearing notification signs must be
posted not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the
scheduled public hearing on the petition or application, and shall not be
removed by the village or by the petitioner(s) until after the initial date of
the scheduled public hearing on the petition or application.
         f.   Reimbursement: Prior to the initial date of the scheduled public
hearing on the petition or application, the petitioner(s) shall reimburse the
village for the actual out of pocket expenses incurred or to be incurred by the
village for the fabrication, erection, and removal of the sign or signs
required by this section. The petitioner(s) shall also post a bond for each
sign with the village for use of the required signs as specified from time to
time in section 1-10-7 of this code. Said bond shall be refunded to the
petitioner upon return of the sign within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing for which the sign was posted. In the event that the
sign is not returned to the village within ten (10) days of the completion of
the scheduled hearing for which the sign was posted, the bond shall be
forfeited with the fee applying to the cost of replacement of such sign.
         g.   Rules: The village administrator is authorized and empowered to
establish such reasonable rules and regulations governing the posting of
notification signs not inconsistent with the provisions of this section to
carry out the intent of this section to provide notice of proposed hearings
which rules may be necessary due to unique characteristics of the subject
property or application.
      4.   Failure To Comply: Any failure to comply with subsections B1, B2
and/or B3 of this section shall not invalidate any action taken by the village
on any such petition or application.
   C.   Action By Board Of Trustees: After the public hearing and upon the
report of the plan commission, the board of trustees, by ordinance, without
further public hearing, may adopt any proposed special use permit or may refer
it back to the plan commission for further consideration.
   D.   Additional Conditions: In approving a special use permit by ordinance,
the corporate authorities may impose such additional conditions not otherwise
found in this title as is considered necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Administrative Responsibilities
8-11-2: Zoning Permits
8-11-3: Procedure For Obtaining A Zoning Permit
8-11-4: Validity
8-11-5: Duration
8-11-6: Certificates Of Compliance
8-11-7: Appeals And Review
8-11-8: Violations
8-11-1: ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES:
The administrative responsibilities for this Title rest with the Enforcement
Officer, Village Clerk, Plan Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals and Board of
Trustees.
   A.   Enforcement Officer:
      1.   Appointment: The Board of Trustees shall appoint an Enforcement
Officer to enforce the provisions of this Title.
      2.   Assistance From Other Officials: The Enforcement Officer may call
upon any department or official of the Village to furnish such information and
assistance as deemed necessary and it shall be the duty of such department or
official to furnish such information and assistance.
      3.   Duties And Responsibilities: The Enforcement Officer shall:
         a.   Review and approve or disapprove all applications for zoning
permits.
         b.   Register all nonconforming uses and structures.
         c.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the provisions of this Code.
         d.   Issue violation notices that require compliance and advise
suspected violators of their right of appeal.
         e.   Require that all construction work of any type be stopped when
such work is not in compliance with the provisions of this Code.
         f.   Interpret this Title when questions arise.
         g.   Make all other determinations required by this Title.
   B.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall:
      1.   Maintain permanent, current records of this Title, including
amendments.
      2.   Receive, file and distribute all applications for zoning permits,
variations, appeals, special use permits and supporting data.
      3.   Maintain on file a current zoning fee schedule.
      4.   Make all other determinations required by this Title.
   C.   Plan Commission: The Plan Commission shall:
      1.   Review all applications for amendments to this Title and report
findings and recommendations to the Board of Trustees.
      2.   Review all applications for special use permits and amendments to
special use permits and report findings and recommendations to the Board of
Trustees.
      3.   Initiate amendments to this Title.
      4.   Make all other determinations required by this Title.
   D.   Zoning Board Of Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall:
      1.   Review and hold hearings on all applications for variations and on
all appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Enforcement Officer under this Title and make recommendations, including
recommended findings of fact, on applications for variations and appeals to the
board of trustees.
      2.   Make all other determinations required by this title.
   E.   Board Of Trustees: The board of trustees shall:
      1.   Approve or disapprove all variations, special use permits,
amendments to special use permits and amendments to this title.
      2.   Review and make final decisions on all appeals from any order,
requirements, decision or determination made by the enforcement officer under
this title.
      3.   Initiate amendments to this title.
      4.   Institute or delegate the authority to institute proceedings to
enforce the provisions of this title.
      5.   Make all other determinations required by this title. (Ord. 94-O-04,
4-5-1994)
8-11-2: ZONING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered until a zoning permit has been issued by the enforcement
officer stating that said building or structure complies with this title.
   B.   Application: All applications for zoning permits shall be accompanied
by a plat in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the
lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or structure to be
erected or structurally altered, the location of that building or structure on
the lot or lots and the affidavit related to wetlands required by subsection 8-
5-4-6A of this title. Such an application for a zoning permit shall also be
accompanied by all applications for permits, documents, specifications, plans
and information required by all other provisions of this code for the
buildings, structures, site work and/or development which are proposed.
   C.   Exceptions: No zoning permit shall be required for recurring
maintenance of structures, for installation of required improvements according
to an approved subdivision or planned development plat or for local public
utility uses, public streets or landscaping of any premises. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-
3-1990)
8-11-3: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A ZONING PERMIT:
   A.   Application: The applicant shall submit an application signed by the
owner(s) of record to the enforcement officer. Additional information shall be
provided by the applicant as required in writing by the enforcement officer.
   B.   Certification Of Engineer Or Architect: Applications for M, B and O
district zoning permits shall include certification by an engineer or architect
registered in Illinois that the applicable performance standards will be met.
   C.   File Maintained: The enforcement officer shall keep a permanent file of
all applications with accompanying plans and all permits issued. This file
shall be referenced by location of lot.
   D.   Approval: If the application for the proposed construction or
alteration conforms with all applicable provisions of this title and all other
applicable provisions of this code, the enforcement officer shall issue a
zoning permit.
   E.   Nonapproval: If the proposed construction or alteration does not
conform with all applicable provisions of this title, the enforcement officer
shall refuse to issue a zoning permit and shall deliver written notice to the
applicant stating the reasons for this refusal.
   F.   Action Of Enforcement Officer: The enforcement officer shall act upon
applications for zoning permits within thirty (30) calendar days from the date
of their submission.
   G.   Fee: The applicant for a zoning permit must pay a fee as specified from
time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
8-11-4: VALIDITY:
The issuance of a zoning permit by the enforcement officer shall not waive any
provision of this title. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-11-5: DURATION:
No zoning permit shall be issued unless and until a building permit for the
zoning lot in question has been issued or unless and until a site development
permit has been issued if no building or structure is proposed or contemplated
and the zoning permit shall have the same term and be of the same duration as
the related building or site development permit so provided by the applicable
provisions of this code. (Ord. 90-O-16, 7-3-1990)
8-11-6: CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE:
No building or structure erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or
used until a certificate of compliance has been issued by the enforcement
officer. The certificate of compliance shall be issued only after the
enforcement officer makes a finding that the building or structure has been
erected or altered in conformance with the approved zoning permit. (Ord. 90-O-
16, 7-3-1990)
8-11-7: APPEALS AND REVIEW:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Within forty five (45) calendar days of the action
complained of, an appeal may be filed with the village clerk. The notice of
appeal shall specify the grounds for the appeal. Copies of the appeal shall be
distributed to the board of trustees and to the zoning board of appeals. All
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken shall
be made available to the zoning board of appeals and board of trustees.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the enforcement officer certifies to the board
of trustees that a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property, in
which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by an order
granted by the board of trustees or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Hearing; Notice: The zoning board of appeals shall fix a reasonable
time and place for the hearing of the appeal. Due notice of the hearing shall
be given to the party making the appeal and to other persons affected by the
appeal.
   D.   Duty Of Zoning Board Of Appeals: The zoning board of appeals shall
review, hold hearings on and make recommendations, including recommended
findings of fact, to the board of trustees on all appeals.
   E.   Vote Of Board Of Trustees: The concurring vote of a majority of the
members of the board of trustees shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the enforcement officer pursuant to
an appeal.
   F.   Decision; Notice: The board of trustees shall receive and review any
recommendations of the zoning board of appeals on appeals. The decision of the
board of trustees on an appeal shall be presented in writing to the person or
persons filing the appeal by registered mail and to other persons affected by
the appeal and notified under the provisions of this title.
   G.   Legislative Decision: All decisions of the board of trustees on appeals
shall be final legislative decisions, subject only to review by a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 91-O-04, 4-5-1994)
8-11-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Petty Offense: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this title or of failing
to comply with any of the requirements hereof or who shall violate a permit or
certificate or a directive of the enforcement officer issued under the
provisions of this title shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable by fine
(s) and other penalties as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this title or of failing to
comply with any requirement of this code, or of violating a permit or
certificate or a directive of the enforcement officer issued under the
provisions of this title, shall, in addition to the fine(s) and other penalties
provided, be obligated to reimburse the village for its attorney fees to the
extent permitted by law, court costs, court reporter costs, expert witness fees
and all other out of pocket costs incurred by the village in the prosecution of
the said violation or violations.
   C.   Joint And Several Liability: The owner of record, beneficiaries,
general agent and/or contractor for the building or premises where such
violation has been committed or shall exist and the lessee or tenant of an
entire building or any part of a building and anyone who assists in such
violation shall all be jointly and severally liable for any such violation.
   D.   Injunction: The village may make application to the circuit court for
an injunction requiring conformance with this title or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this title.
   E.   Abatement: In case any structure or sign is erected, constructed,
repaired, altered, relocated, changed and/or maintained in violation of this
title, the village, in addition to any other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, repair, alteration, relocation, change and/or maintenance, to
prevent the use or occupancy of any building, structure or property in
violation of this title and/or to restrain or abate the violation. (Ord. 2008-
O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY AND LEGAL STATUS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purposes
9-1-3: Applicability
9-1-4: Legal Status
9-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations are entitled the VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS and may be referred to as the Subdivision Regulations. An attested
copy of the Subdivision Regulations is on file with the Village Clerk. (Ord.
89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-1-2: PURPOSES:
The purposes of the Subdivision Regulations are:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, convenience and the
general welfare.
   B.   To facilitate the orderly growth and development of the Village by
providing suitable residential, commercial and industrial developments
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   To secure a safe traffic circulation system by having a good
relationship between the street system, adjoining subdivisions and public
facilities.
   D.   To achieve individual property lots of maximum utility and livability.
   E.   To ensure adequate provisions for water, drainage, sanitary sewer
facilities and other health requirements.
   F.   To secure adequate provisions for roads, recreational and open space
areas, school sites and other public facilities.
   G.   To facilitate the further resubdivision of large tracts into smaller
parcels of land.
   H.   To preserve the character of the Village and contiguous unincorporated
territory.
   I.   To preserve the ecological system and the environment.
   J.   To establish standards of design and reasonable procedures for
subdivision and resubdivision of land within the Village and adjacent
unincorporated areas which are within the subdivision jurisdiction of the
Village.
   K.   To assist land developers and public officials in processing
subdivisions and making decisions about them.
   L.   To avoid disturbing areas subject to flooding.
   M.   To preserve natural vegetation.
   N.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies that administer and enforce these regulations.
   O.   To help enforce the development standards contained in the Building
Code, Zoning Ordinance and the Comprehensive Plan for the Village. (Ord. 89-O-
6, 2-7-1989)
9-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Compliance Required: No landowner may subdivide or plat any land within
the Village or its subdivision jurisdiction unless the procedures of these
Subdivision Regulations are followed and the requirements of these Subdivision
Regulations are met.
   B.   Sales Prohibited Prior To Approval Of Final Plat: No owner or agent of
the owner of any parcel of land located in a proposed subdivision shall
transfer or sell such parcel before final plat of subdivision has been approved
in accordance with the terms of these regulations.
   C.   Public Improvements: All public improvements within the corporate
limits of the Village or its subdivision jurisdiction shall be installed in
accordance with the design standards and requirements of Chapter 5 of these
Subdivision Regulations. Prior to the installation of the public improvements,
a final plat shall be approved in accordance with the terms of Chapter 4 of
these Subdivision Regulations. If a final plat is not required, approval of the
Plan Commission, upon written recommendation of the Village Engineer, must be
obtained prior to the installation of the public improvements.
   D.   Applicability: These subdivision regulations shall be applicable to:
      1.   All subdivision and resubdivision of land within the corporate
limits of the Village.
      2.   All subdivision and resubdivision of land one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits of the Village; except, where there is a
boundary agreement with another municipality or the subdivision jurisdiction of
another municipality overlaps the subdivision jurisdiction of the Village.
         a.   Boundary agreements between the Village and other municipalities
will take precedence in determining the subdivision jurisdiction for
unincorporated areas;
         b.   If another municipality's subdivision jurisdiction overlaps the
subdivision jurisdiction of the Village and there is no boundary agreement that
applies, these Subdivision Regulations shall be applicable to the territory
from the corporate limits of the Village to a line equidistant from its
boundary and the boundary of the other municipality nearest to the Village at
any given point on the land.
   E.   Nonapplicability: These Subdivision Regulations shall not be applicable
to the following situations as described in the definition of the word
"subdivision" contained in Chapter 2 of this Title:
      1.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
(5) acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need for
facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare;
      2.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land but excluding any resubdivision of land previously
subdivided or platted and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need
for facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare;
      3.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other pipe
lines which does not involve any new streets or easements or access and which
does not affect, involve or relate to the need for facilities (present or
future) protecting the public health, safety and welfare;
      4.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access and which does
not affect, involve or relate to the need for facilities (present or future)
protecting the public health, safety and welfare;
      5.   The conveyance of land for a road, street, highway or other public
purposes or grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public
use or instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public
use;
      6.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      7.   The sale or exchange or parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and which does not involve any new streets or
easements of access and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need
for facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-1-4: LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Conflict With Other Instruments: In case of conflict between any part
of these Subdivision Regulations and any other valid legal instrument, the most
restrictive provisions shall apply in every case.
   B.   Validity And Separability: If any provision of these Subdivision
Regulations is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such a decision shall not affect the validity of any other
provision of these Subdivision Regulations. It is hereby declared the intention
of the Board of Trustees of the Village that all provisions of these
regulations are separable.
   C.   Minimum Requirements And Interpretation:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, convenience and general
welfare.
      2.   Higher Standards Govern: Where the regulations imposed by any
provision of this Title are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable regulations for the same site imposed by any other provision of this
Code or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern.
      3.   Abrogation: This Title is not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant or other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of
this Title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than
such easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
Title shall govern. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABSORPTION AREA: The trench area required to adequately dissipate the liquid
wastewater being discharged to a seepage field.
ABUT: To physically touch, border upon or share a common property line.
ACCESS: A way or means of approach that provides physical entrance to a
property.
ALLEY: A public right of way primarily designed to serve as a secondary means
of vehicular access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
ARTERIAL: Highways generally characterized by their ability to quickly move
relatively large volumes of traffic, but often with restricted accessibility to
abutting properties.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation delineating the level of flooding
resulting from the 100-year flood frequency storm event.
BEARING STRENGTH: The amount of weight an area is capable of supporting.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets,
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, waterways or the corporate
limits of the village.
BOG: Wet, spongy land, usually poorly drained, acidic and rich in plant
residue.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
CLAY: A highly plastic fine soil that contains soil particles of less than two
one-thousandths millimeter (0.002 mm) in diameter.
CLAYEY SOILS: Those soils consisting predominantly of clay or soils having
properties similar to clay.
COLLECTOR STREET: Streets which are generally characterized by a relatively
even distribution of access and mobility functions, and often provide linkages
between local streets and arterials. Traffic volumes and speeds are typically
lower than those of arterials.
COMMISSION: The plan commission of the village of Lake Barrington, Illinois.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official comprehensive plan of Lake Barrington,
Illinois, and environs, being the official plan of the municipality, as adopted
and amended.
COMPRESSIBILITY: The susceptibility of a supporting structure to decrease in
volume when subjected to loads.
COUNTY ENGINEER: The officially appointed engineer of Lake County.
CROSSWALK (PEDESTRIANWAY): A public right of way within a block, intended for
pedestrians, but which may include utilities.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local residential street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
CURTAIN DRAIN: Pipes, ditches, mounds or other means which redirect surface or
ground water away from areas which function better in a dry state.
DRAINAGE: A. Surface water runoff;
   B.   The removal of surface water or ground water from land by drains,
grading or other means which include runoff controls to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development, the means for
preserving the water supply and the prevention or alleviation of flooding.
DRAINAGE AREA: The land area above a given point that contributes storm water
to that point.
DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Pipes, swales, natural features and manmade improvements
designed to carry drainage.
DRAINAGEWAY: Any natural or artificial watercourse, trench, ditch, swale or
similar depression into which surface water flows.
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner
to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity.
EASEMENT, SLOPE: An easement which allows the village or its agents to enter a
property to construct a slide slope from a roadway, shoulder or other project,
and restore the slope upon completion of the project with sod, grass or other
material and to maintain the slope.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The person appointed by the village board of trustees to
enforce the subdivision regulations of the village.
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA: An area with one or more of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Slopes in excess of fifteen percent (15%);
   B.   Floodplain;
   C.   Soils with a high water table;
   D.   Land incapable of meeting percolation requirements;
   E.   Land formerly used for landfill operations or hazardous industrial use;
   F.   Fault areas;
   G.   Stream corridors;
   H.   Estuaries;
   I.   Mature stands of native vegetation; and
   J.   Aquifer recharge and discharge areas.
FEN: A low lying area partly or wholly covered by alkaline water.
FINAL APPROVAL: The approval statement required from the village engineer prior
to consideration by the village board of trustees of acceptance of private
street improvements or of acceptance of a public street for maintenance.
FINAL PLAT: The map or plan of record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material.
FLAG LOT: A lot not fronting on or abutting a public road and where access to
the public road is by a narrow, private right of way.
FOUNDATION: The substructure, including masonry walls, piers, footings, piles,
grillage and similar construction which is designed to transmit the load of any
superimposed structure to natural solid or bedrock.
FRONTAGE: The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract of
land abutting a public street, road, highway or rural right of way.
FROST HEAVE: The raising of a surface due to the freezing of water in the
underlying soil structure.
GRADE: The degree of rise or descent of a sloping surface.
GRADE, EXISTING: The existing grade shall be the elevation of the ground
surface as measured at a particular location on a lot or parcel prior to any
work on or disturbance of the land comprising such lot or parcel, including the
disturbance or removal of any existing trees thereon, and without regard to any
regrading or other changes in the topography of said lot or parcel done within
thirty six (36) months prior to any application being filed for any work to be
performed on such lot or parcel.
GROUND WATER LEVEL: The free subsurface water lying along the water table which
is the upper limit of saturation within the soil structure.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surfaced, manmade area that does not readily
absorb or retain water, including, but not limited to, building roofs, parking
and driveway areas, graveled areas, sidewalks and paved recreation areas.
LOAM: The textural class name for soil having a moderate amount of sand, silt
and clay.
LOCAL STREET: All public roads or streets not classified as arterials or
collectors, and serve primarily to provide access to abutting property and
connections to collector streets.
LOT: A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit and having its principal frontage on a street.
LOT AREA: The horizontal area bounded by the front, side and rear lot lines,
measured within the lot boundaries, excluding public rights of way.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets.
LOT COVERAGE: That portion of the land that is covered by buildings, structures
and all other humanmade improvements on the ground surface which are more
impervious than the natural surface, such as paving, driveways, etc.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance measured from the front lot line to the
rear lot line within the lot boundaries.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured parallel to the front lot line at the required front setback line,
unless specified in these regulations or this code.
LOT WIDTH, AVERAGE: The average horizontal distance between the side lot lines
of a lot.
LOW OPENING ELEVATION: The elevation at which water could enter a structure
through any nonwatertight opening such as a doorway threshold, a windowsill, or
a basement window well.
MINERAL SOIL: A soil consisting predominantly of, and having its properties
determined predominantly by, mineral matter; usually contains less than twenty
percent (20%) organic material.
OFFICIAL STREET CLASSIFICATION MAP: The designation of local, collector, minor
and major arterial streets of the village and their proposed future alignments.
ORGANIC SOILS: Soils that contain a high percentage (greater than 20 or 30
percent) of organic matter.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity holding title to the land sought to be
subdivided under the subdivision regulations.
PC: A point of curvature.
PT: A point of tangent.
PARKWAY: An unpaved strip of land situated within the public right of way of a
street.
PEAT: Unconsolidated soil material consisting largely of undecomposed or only
slightly decomposed organic matter accumulated under conditions of excessive
moisture.
PEDESTRIANWAY: See definition of Crosswalk (Pedestrianway).
PERMEABILITY: The capacity for transmitting a fluid. It is measured by the rate
at which a fluid of standard viscosity can move through material in a given
interval of time under a given hydraulic gradient.
PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of the village of Lake Barrington,
Illinois.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: The development of a parcel of land having a
previously approved overall plan according to the rules and regulations
stipulated in the planned unit development regulations of the village of Lake
Barrington, as adopted or amended.
PLAT: A map of a subdivision.
Final Plat: A map of all or part of the subdivision prepared and certified by a
registered Illinois land surveyor in accordance with the requirements of the
applicable provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes as amended and these
regulations and suitable for recording by the county recorder of deeds.
Preliminary Plat: A preliminary map showing the proposed layout of subdivision
in sufficient detail to allow review by the platting authority and other
interested agencies and meeting the requirements of these regulations.
PLATTING AUTHORITY: The platting authority for the village of Lake Barrington
shall be the plan commission.
PRELIMINARY APPROVAL: The approval statement required from the village engineer
prior to release of the damage and nuisance guarantee.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The drawings and documents described in these subdivision
regulations.
PRIVATE ACCESS: A means of ingress and egress for only one lot on, over and
across an easement or a portion of a lot of record that begins at the right of
way line of a public or private street and terminates at a location selected by
the user of the private access and is not governed by the standards set forth
in chapter 5 of this title.
PRIVATE STREET: A means of ingress and egress, not dedicated by recorded
instrument for public use, that is maintained by the party or parties using
said private street.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Streets and highways, alleys, public grounds, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, storm water drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment facilities.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, prescription
or condemnation and is intended to be occupied or occupied by a road,
crosswalk, railroad, transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line,
sanitary or storm sewer, trail, bicycle path and other similar uses.
RIGHT OF WAY LINES: The lines that form the boundary of a right of way.
SEPTIC SYSTEM: An underground system with a septic tank used for the
decomposition of domestic wastes.
SEPTIC TANK: A watertight receptacle that receives the discharge of sewage from
a building, sewer or part thereof, and is designed and constructed to permit
settling of solids from this liquid, digestion of the organic matter and
discharge of the liquid portion into a disposal area.
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT: A set of actions taken to control storm water runoff
with the objectives of providing controlled surface drainage, flood control,
and pollutant reduction in runoff.
STREET: Any vehicular way which:
   A.   Is an existing state, county or municipal roadway; or
   B.   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law; or
   C.   Is approved by other official action;
and includes the land between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved.
STREET, MINOR: A public or private street of limited continuity used primarily
for access to abutting properties and local needs of a neighborhood.
SUBDIVIDER (DEVELOPER): Any person, persons, partnership, corporation or duly
authorized agent of the landowner who undertakes the subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: Includes resubdivision, and where it is appropriate to the
context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   A.   For the purposes of these regulations, a subdivision of land is or
includes:
      1.   Any resubdivision of land heretofore subdivided or platted.
      2.   Any condominium development, any planned unit development, and any
other residential, commercial or industrial building and/or development on one
or more lots, tracts or parcels of land which affects, involves or relates to
facilities (present or proposed) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare, or which affects, involves or relates to the need for such in the
future. For the purpose of this definition, the term facilities includes, but
is not limited to, public streets, alleys and ways for public utilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other
public grounds, storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary
sewers or sewage collection and treatment.
   B.   For the purposes of these regulations, the term subdivision shall not
include:
      1.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
(5) acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need for
facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare;
      2.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land but excluding any resubdivision of land heretofore
subdivided or platted and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need
for facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare;
      3.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access and
which does not affect, involve or relate to the need for facilities (present or
future) protecting the public health, safety and welfare;
      4.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access and which does
not affect, involve or relate to the need for facilities (present or future)
protecting the public health, safety or welfare;
      5.   The conveyance of land for a road, street or highway or other public
purposes or grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public
use or instruments relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      6.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      7.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and which does not involve any new streets or
easements of access and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need
for facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS: The standards detailed in chapter 5 of this
title.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: Any subdivision containing six (6) or more lots.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision containing not more than five (5) lots.
SWALE: A vegetated channel, ditch, or low lying or depressional tract of land
that is periodically inundated by storm water conveyed from one point to
another.
USGS: The United States geological survey.
UTILITIES: Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission
or distribution systems, collection, communications, supply or disposal
systems, erected, operated and maintained by public utilities or municipal or
other governmental agencies.
WET SOILS: Soils frequently or continuously waterlogged with subsurface water
conditions which produce excessive or abnormal hydrostatic pressure on building
foundations or other structures.
WETLAND: Land that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, under normal conditions, a
prevalence of vegetation adapted for life in saturated soil conditions (known
as hydrophytic vegetation). A wetland is identified based upon three (3)
attributes: a) hydrology, b) soils, and c) vegetation as mandated by the
current federal wetland determination methodology.
ZONING ORDINANCE: Title 8 of this code, as amended. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Administrative Responsibilities
9-3-2: Approval Of Plats Required
9-3-3: Suitability Of Land For Subdividing
9-3-4: Public Improvements To Be Approved Prior To Construction
9-3-5: Fees, Deposits And Costs
9-3-6: Vacation Of Plats And Streets
9-3-7: Dedication Of School Sites, Park, Fire/Rescue/Emergency Medical Services
And Library Lands Or Cash Contributions In Lieu Thereof
9-3-8: Notification Of Neighboring Property Owners And Applicable Taxing
Districts
9-3-9: Minimum Requirements And Interpretation
9-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES:
The administrative responsibilities for the subdivision regulations rest with
the enforcing officer, village clerk, plan commission, village engineer and
board of trustees.
   A.   Enforcing Officer: The board of trustees of the village shall appoint
an enforcing officer to enforce the provisions of the subdivision regulations.
The enforcing officer may call upon any department or official of the village
to furnish such information and assistance as deemed necessary and it shall be
the duty of such department or official to furnish such information and
assistance.
   B.   Village Clerk: The village clerk shall:
      1.   Maintain permanent, current records of the subdivision regulations,
including amendments.
      2.   Receive, file and distribute all sketch plans, subdivision
applications, preliminary and final plats and supporting data.
      3.   Receive, file and record final plats with the proper county or
authority.
      4.   Maintain on file a current subdivision fee schedule.
      5.   Make all other determinations required by these regulations.
   C.   Plan Commission: The plan commission shall:
      1.   Review all preliminary subdivision plats and recommend approval,
disapproval or suggested modifications to the board of trustees;
      2.   Review and recommend approval or disapproval of all final plats and
specifications for improvements;
      3.   Recommend the granting or denial of requests for variations;
      4.   Initiate and hold public hearings to recommend to the board of
trustees any amendments to these subdivision regulations that the plan
commission deems necessary or advisable; and
      5.   Make all other determinations required by these regulations. (Ord.
89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
   D.   Village Engineer: The village engineer is vested with the duty and
responsibility of reviewing all engineering plans and specifications concerning
required public improvements for compliance with this code and submitting
recommendations to the plan commission and board of trustees. The village
engineer shall also make all other determinations required by these
regulations. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
   E.   Board Of Trustees: The board of trustees shall:
      1.   Approve or disapprove all preliminary subdivision plats referred to
it by the plan commission;
      2.   Approve or disapprove all final plats referred to it by the plan
commission;
      3.   Amend these subdivision regulations when found necessary and
desirable;
      4.   Institute proceedings to enforce the provisions of the subdivision
regulations;
      5.   Approve or disapprove intended dedications and, by ordinance,
declare public reservations of land;
      6.   Order the vacation of a street, alley or other public place and
determine compensation;
      7.   Act upon variation recommendations referred to it by the plan
commission; and
      8.   Make all other determinations required of the board of trustees by
the regulations. (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-3-2: APPROVAL OF PLATS REQUIRED:
From and after the effective date hereof, no plat of subdivision of any land
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be valid nor entitled to record
unless and until it has been approved by the village board of trustees in
accordance with the procedures established by these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-3-3: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVIDING:
No land shall be subdivided for any use if the board of trustees determines
that it is unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding, poor drainage,
adverse earth or rock formation, adverse topography or any other feature likely
to be harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the future residents in the
proposed subdivision or in the village; however, if the subdivider agrees to
make improvements which will, based upon the determination of the board of
trustees, make the site suitable for development, provide adequate lot and
street drainage and adequate storm water detention facilities, the subdivision
may then be approved. (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-3-4: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS TO BE APPROVED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION:
All plans, specifications, details, contracts, insurance and the amount of
performance guarantees for public improvements required or installed under the
subdivision regulations, including street paving, water distribution systems,
sewer systems, curbs, sidewalks, street name signs and the like shall be
approved, in writing, by the village engineer before starting construction.
(Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-3-5: FEES, DEPOSITS AND COSTS:
As a means of covering all costs incurred by the village with respect to any
subdivision within the corporate limits or its subdivision jurisdiction,
including the costs of inspections, the board of trustees provides for, among
other things, fees for annexation, plat approval and zoning relief as specified
from time to time in this code. Every applicant for plat approval, whether
preliminary or final approval, shall comply with the requirements of title 1,
chapter 10 of this code as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2008-O-
05, 2-5-2008)
9-3-6: VACATION OF PLATS AND STREETS:
   A.   Referral Of Application: If an application for vacation of any
subdivision, street, alley or public place, or part thereof, is made to the
board of trustees, such application shall be referred to the plan commission
and to the village engineer. Both the plan commission and village engineer
shall make investigations and file written reports with the board of trustees.
   B.   Vacation Of Subdivision: If an application is made to the board of
trustees to vacate a subdivision (in whole or in part) prior to the sale of any
lot, the board of trustees may, by ordinance, order the vacation of all or a
part of the said subdivision. If lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated,
providing all the owners in said plat provide written concurrence.
   C.   Vacation Of Street, Alley Or Public Place: If an application is made to
the board of trustees to vacate a street, alley or public place (or part
thereof) within the village, the board of trustees may approve the application,
but vacation orders require an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of
the members of the board of trustees. In such cases, the owner or owners of
property abutting on the street, alley or public place (or part thereof) shall
pay compensation to the village in an amount judged by the board of trustees to
be equal to the benefits which will accrue to the owners of such abutting
property by reason of the vacation. (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-3-7: DEDICATION OF SCHOOL SITES, PARK, FIRE/RESCUE/EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
AND LIBRARY LANDS OR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU THEREOF:
   A.   Legislative Intent: As a condition of approval of a final plat of
subdivision or of a final plat of a planned development, each subdivider or
developer shall be required to dedicate land for library, park, recreational,
fire/rescue/emergency medical services (hereinafter "EMS"), and school purposes
to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or
shall be required to make a cash contribution in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the village. However,
the village shall have the final decision making power in this regard. Land
dedication sites may be made to the village or to the applicable district at
the discretion of the village board. The dedications and cash contributions
required hereunder shall be made in accordance with the criteria and formulas
herein. (Ord. 2003-O-09, 5-6-2003)
   B.   Criteria For Requiring School Site Dedications:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to
be generated by a subdivision or planned development shall bear directly on the
amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land dedication
requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: a) estimated
children to be served in each such school classification over the b) maximum
recommended number of students to be served in each such school classification
as stated herein, and then applying such ratio c) the appropriate number of
acres for a school site of each such school classification as stated herein.
The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient
land for school sites to serve the estimated increase in number of students for
each such school classification.
      2.   School Classifications And Size Of School Site: These requirements
for acreage are based upon a review of available data studies and literature on
the subject, including, but not limited to, information provided by the state
superintendent of education and the unique characteristics of the village,
including its general rural character and open spaces, and the desire of the
residents to maintain this character and open space in future school sites.
These requirements for acreage shall be presumed as the appropriate acreage
requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land
dedication herein unless timely objected to as provided herein. Objections to
these acreage requirements for any particular development shall be made in
accordance with subsection Q of this section to the plan commission. Failure to
timely object to these acreage requirements in accordance with subsection Q of
this section shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later
time.
School classifications and size of school sites within the village shall be
determined in accordance with the following criteria:
   SCHOOL DISTRICT 95
 
                           Maximum Number Of Students Appropriate Number Of
School Classifi- cation By For Each Such School       Acres Of Land For Each
Grades                     Classification             School Site Of Such
                                                      Classification
Elementary schools,
grades kindergarten        600 students               11 acres
through 5th or 6th
Junior high schools,
grades 6th through         900 students               29 acres
8th or 7th and 8th
High schools, grades       1,500 students             45 acres
9th through 12th
 
   SCHOOL DISTRICT 118
 
                           Maximum Number Of Students Appropriate Number Of
School Classifi- cation By For Each Such School       Acres Of Land For Each
Grades                     Classification             School Site Of Such
                                                      Classification
Elementary schools,
grades kindergarten        600 students               15 acres
through 5th or 6th
Junior high schools,
grades 6th through         800 students               30 acres
8th or 7th and 8th
High schools, grades       1,600 students             60 acres
9th through 12th
 
   SCHOOL DISTRICT 220
 
                           Maximum Number Of Students Appropriate Number Of
School Classifi- cation By For Each Such School       Acres Of Land For Each
Grades                     Classification             School Site Of Such
                                                      Classification
Elementary schools,
grades kindergarten        500 students               15 acres
through 5th or 6th
Junior high schools,
grades 6th through         800 students               25 acres
8th or 7th and 8th
                           2,500 students             72 acres
High schools, grades       500 (addition only)        15 acres - adjacent to
9th through 12th           3,000 students total       present high school
                                                      87 acres total
 
   SCHOOL DISTRICT 300
 
                           Maximum Number Of Students Appropriate Number Of
School Classifi- cation By For Each Such School       Acres Of Land For Each
Grades                     Classification             School Site Of Such
                                                      Classification
Elementary schools,
grades kindergarten        600 students               15 acres
through 5th or 6th
Junior high schools,
grades 6th through         900 students               30 acres
8th or 7th and 8th
High schools, grades       1,800 students             60 acres
9th through 12th
 
   (Ord. 2005-O-03, 2-1-2005)
   C.   Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreational Land Dedications:
      1.   Suitability: The land for park and recreational dedications shall be
suitable for the purpose for which it is intended. Land set aside by developers
for parks and recreation purposes shall not be what has been "left over" after
residential, commercial and industrial development.
      2.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly on the amount of land required for dedication
for park and recreational purposes. The total requirement shall be ten (10)
acres of land per one thousand (1,000) of ultimate population and may be
allocated by the village board at its discretion based upon the following
criteria:
Type Of Recreation Area Minimum Size Park Acres Per 1,000 Persons
Type Of Recreation Area     Minimum Size      Park Acres Per 1,000 Persons
Play lot                    8,000 square feet <1
Neighborhood park           3 acres           2 acres
Villagewide park for active 10 acres          4 acres
sports
Villagewide community park  15 acres          4 acres
 
These requirements for acreage are based upon a review of available data
studies and literature on the subject, including, but not limited to, the
National Recreation and Park Association's "Recreation, Park And Open Space
Standards And Guidelines, 1990". These requirements shall be presumed as the
appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in
lieu of land dedication herein unless timely objected to as provided herein.
Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development shall
be made in accordance with subsection Q of this section to the plan commission.
Failure to timely object to these acreage requirements in accordance with
subsection Q of this section shall thereafter waive any right to raise an
objection at a later time.
      3.   Location: The park and recreation plans as adopted by the village's
comprehensive plan shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A central
location that will serve equally the entire development or a location that is
adjacent to existing park and recreational land is most desirable.
   D.   Fire/Rescue/EMS/Capital Facilities Contributions And Site Dedication:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The development of new
subdivisions and planned developments increases the demands upon the existing
fire/rescue/emergency medical services (hereinafter "EMS") protection service
provided by the village in a proportionate and ascertainable manner and creates
the need for additional fire/rescue/EMS, firehouse and training sites. Studies
reveal the need to develop additional fire/rescue/EMS protection services.
Therefore, as a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a
final plat of a planned development, each developer or subdivider shall be
required to dedicate land for fire/rescue/EMS facilities to serve the immediate
and future needs of the residents of the development or shall be required to
make a cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication.
The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly on the
amount of land required for a fire/rescue/EMS site dedication. The village
hereby finds that the total requirement shall be three (3) acres of land per
ten thousand (10,000) of ultimate population. This requirement is based upon a
review of available data as well as the fire/rescue/EMS districts' own internal
examination of fire/rescue/EMS utilization and needs.
This contribution and/or dedication is based upon a review of available data,
studies and literature, including, but not limited to, the requirements of
surrounding communities. They shall be presumed to be correct and accurate and
shall be used in calculating cash contributions herein unless timely objected
to as provided herein. Objections to this section shall be made in accordance
with subsection Q of this section. Failure to timely object to these
requirements in strict accordance with subsection Q of this section shall
thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
The fire/rescue/EMS capital facilities contribution shall be held in trust by
the village or other public body designated by the village and shall be used by
the village or other public body designated by the village for the purpose of
assisting in providing additional facilities for fire/rescue/EMS purposes or to
pay for or reimburse the village for the construction of public infrastructure
improvements required or deemed necessary by the village for such a fire/
rescue/EMS site which would serve such subdivision or development. The term
"public infrastructure improvements", as used in this section, may include, but
shall not be limited to, capital improvements for roads, drainage facilities,
right of way acquisition, signalization and signage, or other similar or
related improvements. Funds obtained pursuant to this section, at the sole
discretion of the village, may be utilized directly by the village, or may be
transferred to the fire protection district providing the fire/rescue/EMS
services to the subdivision or development.
      2.   Location: The location of any new fire/rescue/EMS facility and/or
training site shall be determined by the appropriate fire district in
consultation with the village.
   E.   Criteria For Requiring Library Site Dedication:
      1.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly on the amount of land required for dedication.
New development and increased population create greater demands for adequate
and efficient library services to meet the educational, cultural and
recreational needs of the citizenry. They create the need for additional
library facilities. The village hereby finds that the total requirement shall
be 2.5 acres of land per ten thousand (10,000) of ultimate population.
These requirements are based upon a review of available data, studies and
literature on the subject, as well as the library district's own internal
examination of library utilization and needs. They shall be presumed as the
appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in
lieu of land contribution herein unless timely objected to as provided herein.
Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development shall
be made in accordance with subsection Q of this section. Failure to timely
object to these acreage requirements in accordance with subsection Q of this
section shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      2.   Location: The location of any new library facility shall be
determined by the library after consultation with the village. (Ord. 2003-O-09,
5-6-2003)
   F.   Criteria For Requiring A Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Dedication Of
School, Park, Library And Fire/Rescue/EMS Sites: When the development is small
and the resulting site is too small to be practical, or when the available land
is inappropriate for park and recreational purposes or school, fire/rescue/EMS
or library sites or is in conflict with the approved comprehensive school plan,
the village, with the concurrence of the affected district, shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication.
The cash contribution in lieu of dedication of school sites shall be held in
trust by the village and shall be used solely for the acquisition of land for
school sites to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that
subdivision or development or for the expansion of any existing school site
that already serves such needs or to pay for or reimburse the village for or
for the construction of public infrastructure improvements required or deemed
necessary by the village for such a school site which would serve the
subdivision or development, but not for the construction of school buildings or
additions thereto unless agreed to otherwise by the subdivider or developer at
the time of platting.
The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication shall be
held in trust by the village and shall be used solely for the acquisition of
park and recreation land as classified above, which will be available to serve
the immediate or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or
development or for the expansion of other existing local park and recreation
lands that already serve such needs or for any other lawful park purpose, or to
pay for or reimburse the village for the construction of public improvements
required or deemed necessary by the village for such park or recreational lands
which will serve the needs of the subdivision or development, to pay for
improvements, whether public or private, or reimburse the village for any
expenditure for such improvements, when such improvements serve or will serve
to directly or indirectly protect, preserve, and/or enhance the semirural,
countryside character of the village or for any park or open space purpose
agreed to by the subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
The cash contribution in lieu of a library site dedication shall be held in
trust by the benefiting library district or other public body as designated by
the village and shall be used for the acquisition of library land as required
herein, which will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the
residents of that subdivision or development or for the expansion of existing
or proposed library facilities that already serve or will serve such needs or
for any other lawful purpose agreed to by the subdivider or developer at the
time of platting.
The cash contribution in lieu of fire/rescue/EMS sites shall be held in trust
by the village and shall be used for the acquisition of land for fire/rescue/
EMS facilities or training sites to serve the immediate and future needs of the
residents of that subdivision or development or for the expansion of any other
existing fire station or training site that already serves such needs, or to
pay for or reimburse the village for the construction of public infrastructure
improvements required or deemed necessary by the village for such a fire/
rescue/EMS site which would serve the subdivision or development, or for any
other lawful fire/rescue/EMS purpose agreed to by the subdivider or developer
at the time of platting or for any park purpose agreed to by the subdivider or
developer at the time of platting.
If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation or fire/
rescue/EMS land dedication or dedication of library and/or school sites is not
expended for the purposes set forth herein within thirteen (13) years from the
date of receipt, it shall be refunded by the entity holding the contribution to
the record owner of the subdivided land at the time of the refund. If there is
more than one record owner of the subdivided land or of the land that comprises
the planned development, as applicable, such record owners shall share in the
refund pro rata based on the cash contributions originally paid by each
property.
      1.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area that
otherwise would have been dedicated as park and recreation, library, fire/
rescue/EMS and school sites. The fair market value, on a per acre basis, shall
assume, unless determined otherwise pursuant to subsection Q of this section,
that the land is zoned in a one-family dwelling residential zoning district
subdivided with appropriate frontage on a dedicated street or road, has all
appropriate utilities available, is improved as set forth in subsection L of
this section, and is otherwise property capable of being used for residential
development. Based upon a study of comparable real estate transaction, it has
been determined that the present "fair market value" of such improved land in
and surrounding the village is, as of May 6, 2003, as follows:
         a.   Two hundred twenty two thousand six hundred dollars ($222,600.00)
per acre for purposes of locating an elementary or junior high school within
school districts 95, 118, 220 and 300 and locating a high school within school
districts 118 and 300.
         b.   Three hundred ninety seven thousand five hundred dollars
($397,500.00) per acre for purposes of adding onto the existing high school in
school district 220. If the district were to have to condemn residential
property adjacent to the high school, the cost to the district would be in
excess of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per acre.
         c.   One hundred eleven thousand three hundred dollars ($111,300.00)
per acre for purposes of locating a park. Land suitable for park and
recreational purposes may have a lesser value depending upon location,
buildability, and whether the site is used as an active or passive park site.
         d.   One hundred ninety six thousand dollars ($196,000.00) per acre
for purposes of locating a fire station. Fire stations must be strategically
located to minimize response time and have access to arterial roads. This fair
market value reflects these considerations.
         e.   Three hundred ninety seven thousand five hundred dollars
($397,500.00) per acre for purposes of locating and/or adding onto the existing
library. It is noted that an addition to the existing library would entail
purchase of property adjoining the existing library. A second library would
have to be strategically located to accommodate the maximum number of patrons,
and in the tradition of the existing library, be on a major thoroughfare.
These figures shall be adjusted by the village board from time to time with
appropriate study and documentation. The "fair market value" as defined above
shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land dedication herein unless
timely objected to as provided in subsection Q of this section. Objections to
the "fair market value" as defined above shall be made in accordance with
subsection Q of this section to the plan commission. Failure to timely object
to the "fair market value" as defined above in accordance with subsection Q of
this section shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later
time.
      2.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Contribution: There will be
situations in subdivisions or planned developments when a combination of land
dedication and a cash contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when: a) only a portion of the land to be developed is
proposed as the location for a library, park, fire/rescue/EMS or school site
(that portion of the land within the subdivision falling within the library,
park, fire/rescue/EMS or school location shall be dedicated as a site as stated
above, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated); or b) a major
part of the local library, park, fire/rescue/EMS or school site has already
been acquired by the particular district or village and only a small portion of
land is needed from the development to complete the site (the remaining portion
shall be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof for
the rest of the required land shall be required). (Ord. 2011-O-21, 10-11-2011)
   G.   Consumer Price Index ("CPI"): The fair market value identified in
subsection F of this section shall be subject to a "CPI adjustment" which shall
be calculated annually based on the most recent December to December change in
CPI and which adjustment shall go into effect on March 1, 2009, and on February
1 in each year thereafter, or as soon thereafter as such data becomes
available. The CPI shall be based on the annual percentage change as published
by the United States department of labor's bureau of labor statistics consumer
price index for all urban consumers ("CPI-U") for the Chicago-Gary-Kenosha, IL-
IN-WI area (identification number CUURA207SAO). The index base period of 1982-
1984=100 shall be used. If the CPI or this particular regional designation is
changed, discontinued or replaced, such other governmental cost of living index
or computation which replaces the CPI shall be used in order to obtain
substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI had not been
discontinued or replaced.
   H.   Density Formula: The "Table Of Estimated Ultimate Population Per
Dwelling Unit", prepared by Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated
Municipal Consultants, Inc., Naperville, Illinois, and as updated from time to
time by the consulting firm, contained in subsection Z, "Exhibit C", of this
section, constitutes projections of anticipated population density and is
generally indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size
for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required
dedication of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a
written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer pursuant to
subsection Q of this section.
A "bedroom" as used in this section shall include any room which may be used
for bedroom purposes, such as a den, study, loft or extra room located on any
floor in a dwelling unit which may be converted into a sleeping area and is not
clearly identified for some other specific purpose such as a kitchen (1 per
unit), dining room (1 per unit), living room (1 per unit), bathroom(s) and
family room (1 per unit).
The most recent version of the table of estimated ultimate population per
dwelling unit shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land dedication
herein unless objected to as provided in subsection Q of this section.
Objection to the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit shall
be made in accordance with subsection Q of this section to the plan commission.
Failure to object to the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling
unit in accordance with subsection Q of this section shall thereafter waive any
right to raise an objection at a later time.
In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to the table
of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit listed above, he shall
submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional population to
be generated from the subdivision or planned development, and in that event
final determination of the density formula shall be made in accordance with
subsection Q of this section.
If, in the written opinion of the village administrator, the density formula is
not appropriately applied because the new development will be an age restricted
community or extended care facility that is not expected to have any
significant impact on school enrollment, the village administrator may
recommend to the village board that the dedications for school sites and cash
contributions in lieu thereof be waived or modified for the specific
development without the necessity of an objection procedure pursuant to
subsection Q of this section. The village board either may accept the
recommendation by a majority vote of the board members, or failing that, it may
refer the matter to the plan commission for consideration pursuant to the terms
of subsection Q of this section. (Ord. 2009-O-01, 2-3-2009)
   I.   Reservation Of Additional Land: When the comprehensive plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
or library or school sites in a particular subdivision or planned development
than the developer is required to dedicate pursuant to this section, the land
needed beyond the developer's dedication shall be set aside and reserved by the
developer for subsequent purchase by the village (at a price determined at the
time of reservation) or other public body designated by the village, provided
that such acquisition is made within five (5) years from the date of approval
of the final plat.
   J.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where appropriate, a public open
space or a school site that is to be dedicated should, if possible, be combined
with dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable
recreation areas and/or school sites without undue hardship on a particular
developer.
   K.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purpose. Wetlands and floodplains may be accepted for village ownership and
maintenance, but shall not serve as a credit toward the required park site
dedication. Storm water detention areas shall not be accepted for village
ownership and maintenance, and the portion of a detention area designed to
function primarily as a component of the storm water control system shall not
serve as a credit toward the required park site dedication. A park site shall
be not less than one acre in area. The village board reserves the right,
however, in its sole discretion, to accept in whole or in part, certain areas
such as, but not limited to, tree massings, prairie remnants, high quality or
unique wetlands, or other natural features as all or part of the required park
site dedication in furtherance of open space preservation that may be unique to
a given parcel or development. Wetlands, floodplains, detention areas,
retention areas and areas of steep slope shall not be accepted as school, park,
fire/rescue/EMS or library sites and shall not serve as a credit toward the
required school, park, fire/rescue/EMS or library site cash contribution in
lieu of land dedication.
In addition, the following site conditions and preparation standards shall be
met:
      1.   Slope:
         a.   Should not vary greatly in appearance from existing and adjacent
slopes;
         b.   Optimum slopes range from two percent (2%) minimum to four
percent (4%) maximum. No less than two percent (2%) slope is acceptable under
any circumstances;
         c.   Maximum allowable slope is ten percent (10%), except under
special conditions where greater slopes are desirable to enhance the use of the
site; and
         d.   On site drainage patterns shall be designated and constructed to:
            (1)   Ensure flow toward swales; and
            (2)   Ensure drainage away from active areas.
      2.   Grading:
         a.   Rough grading shall be completed at time of rough grading of
adjacent contiguous area;
         b.   Grading shall comply with village approved plans;
         c.   Subgrade shall be graded and compacted so it will parallel
finished grade;
         d.   Subgrade material shall be loosened and fine graded to a depth of
two (2) to four inches (4"). All stones over four inches (4") in size, sticks,
debris, rubbish and other foreign substances shall be removed; and
         e.   Finished grades shall be uniform in slope between points for
which elevations have been established.
      3.   Soils:
         a.   Soils shall not differ from those naturally occurring;
         b.   Soils shall not offer any restriction to the ultimate use of the
property;
         c.   Topsoil shall be spread evenly and lightly compacted to a minimum
depth of six inches (6") over the entire site;
         d.   Topsoil must be good, friable soils with good tillage and shall
be without any admixture of subsoil, clay, gravel, stones, debris, refuse, sand
or other subsurface elements;
         e.   Topsoil shall not be placed in a muddy or frozen condition;
         f.   Topsoil shall contain no toxic substances which may be harmful to
plant growth; and
         g.   Topsoil shall be spread no later than the placement of topsoil on
the first lot adjacent to the site.
      4.   Seeding:
         a.   All proposed library, park and recreational and school sites
shall be seeded and an acceptable stand of grass or vegetation established
prior to dedication of the area to the village;
         b.   Village approved ground covers and grasses shall be used for all
park and recreational areas suitable for the nature of the activity planned to
occur thereon;
         c.   Seeding shall be completed during the fall or spring planting
times, depending upon the recommended seed planting specifications;
         d.   Seeding shall be on moderately dry soil on a seedbed which will
easily accept and nurture germination of seeds;
         e.   Seeding shall be watered sufficiently so that the vegetation
becomes reasonably established; and
         f.   The developer shall be responsible for making necessary
reparations to the site caused by erosion or other damage. Reparations shall be
completed prior to acceptance of the site.
   L.   Improved Sites: All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for
full service of electricity, natural gas, telephone and cable television, and
streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter, where applicable), as
applicable to the location of the site, and shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of the village ordinances and codes. The landscaping normally
included within the definition of "improved" sites under said ordinances and
codes may be deleted due to the delay time between dedication of any such
school site and the construction of school facilities thereon, except for
ground cover as required in subsection K of this section. The site shall have
direct access to a fully improved street across at least twenty percent (20%)
of the distance of its perimeter. School and park sites should ideally be
accessible by a bicycle/pedestrian trail, and any such access route onto the
property shall be at least twenty five feet (25') wide. Such access routes
should normally be dedications and not easements, depending on which entity of
government is to be responsible for said routes. Any vehicular access route
leading to or on the site shall be of sufficient size and good geometry to
properly accommodate vehicles that will access and traverse the site,
including, but not limited to, good principles of traffic circulation,
accommodation of one- way and/or two-way drives for school buses, separation of
bus traffic from passenger automobile traffic, bus dropoff areas separate from
publicly dedicated streets, guest and employee parking areas, and the like.
Such off street access routes, drives, dropoffs and parking areas will not be
dedicated rights of way and shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
site to maintain. (Ord. 2003-O-09, 5-6-2003)
   M.   Environmental Risk Audit: Prior to the conveyance of any land to the
village, library district, park district, fire protection district or school
district, the intended grantee shall be furnished with an environmental risk
audit prepared by an environmental professional meeting the minimum
requirements of 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii), certified
to and acceptable to the grantee, assuring the grantee that there are no
hazardous substance(s) (as defined hereinafter) on, under, to or from the land.
Said environmental audit shall be what is commonly referred to as a phase I
environmental audit, which shall meet the minimum requirements for a
preacquisition audit as set forth in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.2(j)
(6)(E)(v).
In the event the phase I environmental audit does not conclude there is no
presence or likely presence of a release or substantial threat of a release of
hazardous substance(s) or pesticide on, under, to or from the land, the grantee
shall furnish a phase II environmental audit as set forth in 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(vi), including a soil toxicity analysis and
recommendation from said environmental professional, meeting the minimum
requirements of 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii), which
concludes that there is no presence or likely presence of a release or
substantial threat of a release of hazardous substance(s) on, under, to or from
the land, and certifying that, in the judgment of said environmental
professional, there is no reasonable probability that the land contains any
hazardous substance(s) in violation of any federal or state environmental
standards. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
In the event said phase II environmental audit and/or soil toxicity analysis
discloses the presence or likely presence of a release or a substantial threat
of a release of any hazardous substance(s) at, on, under, to or from the land
to be conveyed, the grantor shall first cause all such hazardous substance(s)
to be removed at its sole cost and expense in accordance with all federal,
state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations and furnish the
intended grantee with a "no further remediation letter" from the governmental
agencies having jurisdiction over the cleanup prior to conveyance of any of the
land to the intended grantee.
Prior to the conveyance of the land, the subdivider or developer, as the case
may be, and the owner of the land to be conveyed, shall execute and deliver to
the intended grantee an environmental indemnification agreement, which form has
been approved by the village attorney, agreeing to defend, indemnify and hold
the village, its corporate authorities, officers, officials, employees, agents,
successors and assigns, and the school district, as the case may be, and its
respective officers, officials, employees, agents, successors and assigns,
harmless from and against any and all liability claims, damages, causes of
action and expenses arising out of the presence of any hazardous substance(s),
in, under or upon said land to be conveyed prior to the date of conveyance.
Hazardous substance(s) includes, without limitation:
      1.   Those substances included in the definitions of hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances, hazardous materials, toxic
substances, toxic chemicals, toxic wastes, hazardous chemicals, hazardous
wastes, solid waste and pesticides in CERLA, SARA, RCRA, HSWA, TSCA, OSHA,
FWPCE, Illinois pesticides act 1 , Illinois responsible property transfer act 2
, and the Illinois hazardous materials transportation act 3 , 49 USC section
1801 et seq., as amended, and as they may be amended in the future, and in the
regulations promulgated pursuant to said laws.
      2.   Those substances defined in section 1003 of the Illinois
environmental protection act and in the regulations promulgated pursuant to
said act or other Illinois laws pertaining thereto.
      3.   Those substances listed in the U.S. department of transportation
table (49 CFR 172.101 and amendments thereto) or by the environmental
protection agency (or any successor agency) as hazardous substances (40 CFR
part 302 and amendments thereto).
      4.   Such other substances, materials and wastes which are to become
regulated under applicable local, state or federal law, or which are classified
as hazardous or toxic under federal, state or local laws, ordinances or
regulations.
      5.   Any material waste or substance which is: a) asbestos, b)
polychlorinated biphenols, c) designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to
section 311 of the clean water act, 33 USC section 1251 et seq. (33 USC section
1321), or listed pursuant to section 307 of the clean water act (33 USC section
1317), d) explosives, or e) radioactive materials.
      6.   For purposes of this section, hazardous substances shall include
petroleum or its byproducts as regulated under RCRA and any applicable state
law or regulations.
   N.   Suitability Of Soils At Site: The subdivider or developer, at its own
cost or expense, shall provide to the village, library district, fire
protection district or school district soil boring data, soil compaction test
results and such other engineering studies, data and information pertaining to
the proposed school, library, fire/rescue/EMS or park and recreational site,
which the village, library district, park district, fire protection district or
school district may request to enable it to determine the suitability of the
proposed land dedication for library, fire/rescue/EMS or school sites or park
and recreation purposes. The village, library district, park district, fire
protection district or school district shall have the right to reject any site
which the village, library district, park district, fire protection district or
school district determines, in accordance with sound engineering practices, is
not suitable for library site, fire/rescue/EMS site, park and recreational site
or school site purposes.
   O.   Title Insurance, Survey, Assessment Plats: Each deed or other
instrument conveying land to the village, library district, park district, fire
protection district or school district shall be accompanied by:
      1.   A written commitment issued by a title insurer licensed to do
business in the state to insure the grantee's title to such real estate in an
amount equal to the value computed pursuant to subsection F of this section,
with extended coverage over the general exceptions to title and subject only
to:
         a.   Real estate taxes not yet due and payable,
         b.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions which do not prohibit the
use of the subject property for library, school or park and recreational use,
         c.   Utility easements located within twenty feet (20') of the
boundary lines of the subject real estate (except where approved on the final
engineering plans approved by the village engineer),
         d.   Drainage ditches, feeders and laterals,
         e.   Underground pipe or other conduit, and
         f.   Acts done or suffered by or judgments against the grantees;
      2.   A current ALTA boundary line survey, certified to the grantee by a
licensed Illinois land surveyor to be in compliance with the American land
survey standards, showing no encroachments; and
      3.   Except in instances where the real estate is to be conveyed is a lot
in a recorded subdivision, an assessment plat and tax division petition in a
form acceptable to the appropriate village authorities so the land to be
conveyed can be assigned its own permanent real estate index number (PIN) for
exemption purposes.
In addition, monuments must be established and the land staked immediately
prior to dedication of the property. The subdivider or developer shall pay for
the cost of the owner's title insurance in said amount, the ALTA survey, the
assessment plat and any and all costs in connection with the tax division.
   P.   Real Estate Tax Escrow: The developer shall pay the general real estate
taxes on the land not yet due and payable as of the date of transfer, and shall
deposit a sum of money in escrow with the intended grantee's attorney or a
title company licensed to do business in the state of Illinois, which is
prorated as of the date of transfer on the basis of one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the tax assessor's latest assessed valuation, the latest known
equalization factors and the latest known tax rate on the land. In the event
the previous tax information or the previous tax bill includes other property,
then the amount to be deposited in escrow shall be adjusted ratably based on
the net acreage of the land compared to the net acreage of the other parcels
covered by said tax bills. After the land has been divided for real estate tax
purposes and has been conveyed to the intended grantee, the grantee shall
proceed with due diligence to apply for a real estate tax exemption on the
land.
   Q.   Objections: All objections relating to acreage requirements,
presumptions as to fair market value, the table of estimated ultimate
population per dwelling unit or any other application of this section to a
particular subdivision or planned development, shall first be referred to the
plan commission for a hearing. An objection must be made, if at all, prior to
the approval of the final plat of subdivision by the village. A failure to
object by such time shall constitute a waiver of the right to object to the
provisions of this section. The procedure for a hearing before the plan
commission shall be as follows:
      1.   Duties Of The Plan Commission: The plan commission shall serve in an
advisory capacity and shall have the following duties:
         a.   Advise and assist the village in resolving objections regarding
this section, including, but not limited to, the table of estimated ultimate
population per dwelling unit, the size of the library, park, fire/rescue/EMS
and school sites, respectively, the fair market value of the land used to
calculate the cash contribution, or any other application of this section to a
particular subdivision or planned development.
         b.   The plan commission may adopt procedural rules to be used by the
plan commission in carrying out the duties imposed by this section.
      2.   Information And Services To Be Used: The village shall make
available to the plan commission all professional reports relating to the table
of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, the size of the library,
fire/rescue/EMS, park and school sites and the fair market value of land used
in calculating these cash contributions. The plan commission may also retain
the services of professionals (appraisers, statisticians, etc.) to assist in
its review of issues raised by any objection. (Ord. 2003-O-09, 5-6-2003)
      3.   Procedure For Resolving An Objection:
         a.   Upon receipt of an objection, the village administrator shall
place the same on the next regular meeting agenda of the village board.
Thereafter the village board shall refer to the objection to the plan
commission and by resolution establish a hearing date.
         b.   The plan commission shall provide public notice of the hearing
date to consider the objection and shall notify affected library, fire
protection, school and park districts by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the filing of the objection and of any hearing regarding same.
         c.   The objector shall publish notice of the hearing date once each
week for three (3) consecutive weeks, at least fifteen (15) days before but no
more than thirty (30) days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Notice
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the corporate
limits of the village. The notice of public hearing shall appear in the part of
the paper where legal notices or classified ads appear. The objector shall send
a copy of said notice to any person who has requested said notice by certified
mail (stamped at a U.S. postal service facility showing the date of mailing) at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date.
         d.   The notice shall contain all of the following information:
            (1)   The headline shall read: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON
OBJECTION TO APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE REQUIRING THE DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS,
LIBRARY SITES, FIRE/RESCUE/EMS SITES OR SCHOOL SITES OR PAYMENT OF THE CASH
CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU THEREOF.
            (2)   The date, time and location of the public hearing.
            (3)   A statement that the purpose of the hearing is to consider
the objection to a component of the application of the ordinance requiring the
dedication of park lands, library sites, school sites, or fire/rescue/EMS
sites, or calculation of cash in lieu thereof.
            (4)   A general description of the parcel(s), service area or areas
within the village that are the subject of the hearing.
            (5)   A statement that the village shall make available to the
public, upon request, an easily understandable and detailed map of the parcel
(s), service area or areas to which the ordinance applies, and any other
available information about the objection.
            (6)   A statement that any member of the public affected by the
ordinance or the parcel(s) or service area shall have the right to appear at
the public hearing and present testimony and/or evidence in support of or
against the objection.
         e.   A public hearing shall be held for the consideration of the
objection. In addition to the village, any affected library district, school
district, park district and fire/rescue/EMS provider shall be allowed to
participate in such hearing as a party thereto to present evidence, cross
examine witnesses and make arguments to the plan commission regarding the
issues raised in the objection. The plan commission shall make a recommendation
to adopt, reject in whole or in part, or modify the objection presented at the
hearing, by written report to the village, within sixty (60) days after the
close of the hearing. The village shall then have at least sixty (60) but not
more than one hundred twenty (120) days to approve, disapprove or modify, by
ordinance, the findings, report and recommendation. (Ord. 2009-O-01, 2-3-2009)
      4.   Costs And Fees: The objector shall bear all costs of the hearing
before the plan commission, including, but not limited to, attendance fees paid
the plan commission members, publication costs, professional consultants and
any other expenses of the village. Before a hearing date is set the objector
shall deposit with the village a ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) escrow to
cover these costs which shall be replenished when the balance reaches two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or no less than monthly, by the objector after
payment of any outstanding expenses incurred by the village. Failure to
promptly replenish the escrow shall be cause to stay or defer any hearings,
meetings or actions by the village.
   R.   Condition To Annexation: The dedications of land or cash contributions
in lieu thereof required by this section shall also be required as a condition
to the annexation of any land to the village, and provisions therefore shall at
a minimum be incorporated in any annexation or preannexation agreement
governing such land. However, the village reserves the right to negotiate
dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu of land or a combination
thereof greater than those set forth herein.
   S.   Indemnification: As a condition to the village distributing land
dedications and/or cash contributions in lieu thereof, the appropriate district
shall execute an indemnification agreement in the form set forth in subsection
X, "Exhibit A", of this section.
   T.   Distribution: The cash contribution in lieu of land dedication imposed
by this section shall be collected and held by the village for the purposes set
forth in this section.
As a condition of distribution of these land dedications and/or cash
contributions in lieu of land dedications, the village may require that the
school district, library district, park district or fire/rescue/EMS provider
benefiting from such land dedications and/or cash contributions conduct a needs
assessment and adopt a plan for acquisition of land and capital facilities
needed to accommodate growth.
   U.   Needs Assessment; Land And Capital Facilities Acquisition Plan:
      1.   A needs assessment shall contain the following information for each
district (school, library, fire/rescue provider and park):
         a.   A description of the nature and location of existing park,
library, fire/rescue and school lands and existing park, school, library, fire/
rescue facility and capital facilities within each district.
         b.   An identification of the capacity of each school building, fire/
rescue facility, library facility or park site within the particular district
and of the number of students then enrolled in each school building.
         c.   A projection of the character and location of new development
that is expected to occur within each district or village during the succeeding
ten (10) year period. The district or village may obtain the information
necessary to make this projection from sources such as, but not limited to:
municipalities, other units of government, agencies and consultants.
         d.   An identification of the amount of lands that will be necessary
within the school district and village in order to accommodate the demands of
such projected new development, and an estimate of the public grounds
acquisition costs that will be incurred or have been incurred by each district
in acquiring such lands.
         e.   A general description of each classification of capital
facilities (including construction, expansion or enhancement of any public
facilities and the land improvement, design, engineering and professional costs
related thereto) that will be necessary within each district in order to
provide adequate capacity for the projected new development, and an estimate of
the capital facilities costs that will be incurred by each district in
constructing such capital facilities.
      2.   Based upon the needs assessment, the school district, fire/rescue/
EMS district or library district shall provide the village an acquisition plan
for lands and capital facilities. This acquisition plan shall:
         a.   Project for a planning period of at least five (5) years, the
need for lands and capital facilities within the district or village;
         b.   Set forth a schedule for the acquisition of such lands and
facilities to meet the projected need (which schedule may be conditioned upon
the availability of financing);
         c.   Indicate the size and general location of the needed lands and
facilities;
         d.   Identify the estimated or incurred costs of acquiring such needed
lands and facilities;
         e.   Set forth the anticipated funding sources for the acquisition of
such needed lands and facilities;
         f.   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district's current financial condition;
         g.   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district's or village's estimate of the revenues
(including, without limitation, cash in lieu of land dedication required by
this section) pursuant to the plan;
         h.   Impact on property taxes in the village assuming the plan is
implemented.
      3.   If the village deems it necessary, it may require an updated needs
assessment and plan for acquisition of land and capital facilities from the
district annually. The failure to require said assessment update shall not
invalidate the requirements of this section.
   V.   Time Of Payment: All land dedications and cash contributions imposed by
this section shall be due and payable upon final plat approval. However, the
village may agree that the payment of the cash contributions may be made at the
time of building permit issuance in consideration of which the subdivider or
developer shall execute an agreement, which is subsection Y, "Exhibit B", of
this section, agreeing that the cash contributions payable will be adjusted in
accordance with the requirements herein and further agreeing that the cash
contributions may be expended for the purposes described in subsection Y,
"Exhibit B", of this section.
In calculating the fee at the time of platting, the village will assume the
maximum density permitted under the zoning classification approved pursuant to
the table in subsection Z, "Exhibit C", of this section. For example, if the
subdivision in question is zoned single- family, the village will assume, for
purposes of calculating fees payable pursuant to this section, that all houses
will have four (4) bedrooms. The village will then hold sufficient funds
pending issuance of the building permit to enable it to refund any overpayments
resulting from the fact that houses with less than four (4) bedrooms are
constructed. Refunds shall be made at time of issuance of the building permit.
The village may agree that payment of fees be made at the time of building
permit issuance in consideration of which the subdivider or developer shall
execute the agreement, which is subsection Y, "Exhibit B", of this section,
agreeing that the fees payable will be adjusted in accordance with the
requirements of this section and further agreeing that the fees may be expended
for the purposes described in said subsection Y, "Exhibit B". In the event the
village agrees to delay the payment of the fees required under this section to
the time of building permit issuance, the cash contributions owed shall be
based upon this section or as provided in such future ordinances amending or
replacing this section, which is in effect at the time the building permit is
issued.
   W.   Miscellaneous: In calculating any cash contributions in lieu of land
dedication payable at time of issuance of building permit as provided in this
section, the village shall use the fair market value as set forth in this
section or any amendment thereto and in effect at the time of the contribution
and building permit issuance.
The village recognizes the fact that developments may differ in their impact
upon a community. Consequently, the village reserves the right to negotiate
dedications that are different from those contained in this section when
annexing property to the village pursuant to an annexation agreement.
   X.   Exhibit A:
             AGREEMENT REGARDING THE RECEIPT
             OF DEVELOPER SUBDIVISION CONTRIBUTIONS
   WHEREAS, the Village of Lake Barrington, Illinois, on behalf of itself, its
officers, employees and independent contractors (the "Village"), through its
ordinances or through the provisions of its annexation agreements has required
that developers make contributions to the Village, that the Village, in turn,
may make available for other government bodies that are affected by the
subdivision improvements; and
   WHEREAS, such contributions may be in land or in money and, when transferred
or paid over to those government bodies, inure to the benefit of those
government bodies and not entirely to the direct benefit of the Village; and
   WHEREAS, from time to time within the Village, and within other
municipalities, disputes have arisen regarding the validity and amount of such
contributions; and
   WHEREAS, the Village is willing, at its discretion, to continue seeking the
contribution of land or money but wishes to procure a commitment from other
government bodies benefited by the receipt of such contributions that those
government bodies will (a) acknowledge that the requirement that such
subdivision contributions be made are totally within the discretion of the
Village as to their existence, manner and amount; (b) the other government body
that benefits from the contribution will pay the cost of defending any lawsuit
that is filed challenging the appropriate amount of the contributions, the time
at which they are to be made or any other aspect of the contributions; and (c)
that the benefited government body will comply with the terms of a final and
nonappealable judicial determination by a court of competent jurisdiction
rendered in connection with the lawsuit; and
   WHEREAS, the Village is willing, in its discretion, to pay over or require
contributions only to other government bodies that execute this Agreement;
   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED between the Village on behalf of itself and its
officers, employees, and independent contractors, and
                                 , a government body within the State of
Illinois (the "Benefiting Government"), and in consideration for the payment of
money or the transfer of the land to the Benefiting Government, which the
Village from time to time may within its discretion cause to be made by
developers that are subdividing property, the Benefiting Government does agree,
as follows:
1.   The Benefiting Government acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided
in the Village's ordinances and/or annexation agreements, the Village is not
obligated to cause the payment of money or the transfer of land to the
Benefiting Government. The Benefiting Government recognizes that the Village
may, at its sole discretion, amend its ordinances or annexation agreements or
its practices to discontinue the payment of subdivision contributions to the
Benefiting Government.
2.   A.   In the event a lawsuit is filed against the Village, the Benefiting
Government, and/or others by a developer that is subdividing property or any
other person, corporation or entity that challenges the appropriateness,
amount, timing or any other aspect of a subdivision contribution that, pursuant
to the terms of the Village's ordinances or annexation agreements, has been
paid or is due to the Benefiting Government, then the Benefiting Government
does agree to pay the costs and litigation expenses (including reasonable
attorneys' fees) incurred in defending such lawsuit. The costs and expenses
shall be paid by the Benefiting Government when and as incurred by the Village
but in no event more than once a month. As a condition precedent to the payment
of these costs and expenses, the Village shall submit to the Benefiting
Government copies of the original statements reflecting the costs and expenses,
together with the supporting documentation that may be reasonably requested by
the Benefiting Government.
   B.   The Village covenants and agrees that it shall employ competent and
skilled legal counsel to represent the Benefiting Government and the Village,
and further covenants and agrees that it shall keep the Benefiting Government
fully advised as to the progress and status of the litigation. In particular,
the Village shall provide to the Benefiting Government copies of all pleadings
filed in the litigation and shall consult regularly (and shall cause its
attorneys to consult regularly) with the Benefiting Government or its
attorneys, as applicable, as to the strategy for defending the lawsuit. In no
event may such litigation be compromised or settled by the Village without at
least 30 days' prior written notice to the Benefiting Government. In the event
that the Benefiting Government decides that it would prefer to be represented
in the litigation by legal counsel of its own choosing, then the Benefiting
Government shall be free to retain its own legal counsel for that purpose and
to intervene in the litigation. In the event the Benefiting Government shall
intervene in the litigation, this Agreement shall terminate from and after the
date of the intervention and neither party to this Agreement shall have any
further obligations under the terms of this agreement from and after that date
and the Benefiting Government may choose to continue to defend or choose not to
defend the suit; provided, however, that the Benefiting Government shall still
be liable for all sums that have accrued pursuant to the above subparagraph 2-
A and that remain due and owing from the Benefiting Government to the Village
relating to the defense of any lawsuit filed in connection with dedications
required for cash in lieu thereof collected for or distributed to the
Benefiting Government.
3.   In the event that a final and nonappealable judicial determination is made
by a court of competent jurisdiction that contributions of land or money
received by the Benefiting Government are, in whole or in part, excessive, the
Benefiting Government shall promptly repay to the person who procures such a
judgment, together with all other amounts judged by the court to be owing from
the Benefiting Government. Provided, however, that in the event that a judicial
determination should require the payment of damages or for the attorneys' fees
of the plaintiff's attorneys, in addition to the return of contributions held
to be excessive, the Benefiting Government shall pay all additional amounts in
the same manner as is provided in paragraph 2-A.
4.   In further consideration of the continued payment by the Village to the
Benefiting Government of the subject contributions of land or money, the
Benefiting Government agrees that its obligations under paragraphs 2 and 3 of
this Agreement shall extend to both past and future cash and land
contributions.
5.   On or before June 1st of each year, every Benefiting Government that
receives payments from the Village under this Agreement shall submit a report
to the Village describing the manner in which the payments have been used. When
this Agreement provides that money turned over to Benefiting Government is to
be used for a specific purpose or within a specific time period, the report
shall address those issues. If the Benefiting Government should fail to file
such a report with the Village, the Village may delay the payment of any
additional funds due the Benefiting Government until such time as a full report
containing adequate information is transmitted to the Village.
6.   This Agreement shall be terminated by either party for any reason or no
reason at all upon 30 days' prior written notice to the other party evidencing
the intention to so terminate this Agreement. But the termination of this
Agreement shall not affect the continuing obligation of the Benefiting
Government or the Village with regard to claims or damages allegedly arising
out of the Village's efforts prior to termination to distribute contributions,
or to the actual distribution of subdivision contributions.
   DATED this        day of                     ,         .
   Village of       Benefiting Government:
                      
   Village President          Title:    
   (SEAL)      (SEAL)
   ATTEST:      ATTEST:
                   
   Village Clerk      Secretary
Y.   Exhibit B:
   AGREEMENT
   The Village of               (the "Village") and                          ,
("Developer") agree as follows:
   The Village has approved a final plat of subdivision or a final plat of a
planned development at the request of Developer for the real estate legally
described in Exhibit 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Land").
Accordingly, pursuant to Section
9-3-7 of the Village of Lake Barrington Municipal Code, certain cash
contributions in lieu of dedications for library, fire/rescue, park and
recreation, and school lands are immediately due the Village from the
Developer.
1.   Developer has, however, requested that the payment of the aforesaid cash
contributions be delayed and that the same become due and payable on a per
dwelling unit basis at the time the Village issues a building permit for the
particular dwelling unit.
2.   In consideration for the Village agreeing to delay its receipt of the cash
contributions in accordance with Paragraph 1 above, Developer hereby agrees as
follows:
   a.   The amount of cash contributions owed shall be calculated based upon
Section
9-3-7 or as provided for in such other future ordinance amending or replacing
Section
9-3-7 which is in effect at the time of the issuance of a building permit; and
   b.   Notwithstanding any present or future law, regulation and/or legal
precedent to the contrary, the unit of local government that is the ultimate
recipient of the subject cash contributions may expend such contributions for
any of the following purposes intended to serve immediate or future needs of
the residents and children of the Developer's subdivision or planned
development: (1) for the acquisition of land; (2) for site improvements such
as, by way of example, streets, curbs, gutters, stormwater control, and utility
extensions; (3) for construction of capital facilities, including, by way of
example, new buildings and structures, and the expansion or enhancement of
existing buildings and structures; (4) for the acquisition of capital equipment
which would qualify as a depreciable property under Internal Revenue Service
regulations; and (5) for so- called soft costs directly related to the
foregoing items (2) or (3) such as architectural and engineering costs.
3.   This Agreement constitutes a covenant that is appurtenant to and runs with
the Land. Either this Agreement or a memorandum thereof may be recorded against
legal title to the Land by either party hereto; provided, however, it shall be
a condition of the Village's issuance of the first building permit for a
dwelling unit on the Land that Developer shall provide satisfactory evidence to
the Village that this Agreement or a memorandum thereof has been recorded
against legal title to the Land.
4.   Developer represents and warrants to the Village that it is the sole
holder of record fee title to the Land.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Village and the Developer have caused this Agreement
to be duly authorized, executed and entered into as of the          day of
               ,         .
                 
   Village President      Developer
         ATTEST:
                 
   Village Clerk
Z.   Exhibit C:
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE SCHOOL POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
        Children Per Unit                                                                                                                Adults Total
Type                                                                                                                                        18     Per
Of   Preschool 0–4 Elementary Grades K–5 5–10 Middle Grades 6–8 11–13 Total Grades K–8 5–13 High School Grades 9–12 14–17 Years  Dwelling
Unit Years           Years                          Years                       Years                     Years                             +      Unit
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE SCHOOL POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
              Children Per Unit                                                                                                                Adults
                                                                                                                                                  18     Total Per
Type Of    Preschool 0–4 Elementary Grades K–5 5–10 Middle Grades 6–8 11–13 Total Grades K–8 5–13 High School Grades 9–12 14–17 Years  Dwelling Unit
Unit       Years           Years                          Years                       Years                     Years                             +

Detached Single-Family:
2 bedroom  0.113           0.136                          0.048                       0.184                     0.020                             1.700  2.017
3 bedroom  0.292           0.369                          0.173                       0.542                     0.184                             1.881  2.899
4 bedroom  0.418           0.530                          0.298                       0.828                     0.360                             2.158  3.764
5 bedroom  0.283           0.345                          0.248                       0.593                     0.300                             2.594  3.770
Attached Single-Family:
1 bedroom  0.000           0.000                          0.000                       0.000                     0.000                             1.193  1.193
2 bedroom  0.064           0.088                          0.048                       0.136                     0.038                             1.752  1.990
3 bedroom  0.212           0.234                          0.058                       0.292                     0.059                             1.829  2.392
4 bedroom  0.323           0.322                          0.154                       0.476                     0.173                             2.173  3.145Apartment
                                                                                                                                                         s:
Efficiency 0.000           0.000                          0.000                       0.000                     0.000                             1.294  1.294
1 bedroom  0.000           0.002                          0.001                       0.003                     0.001                             1.754  1.758
2 bedroom  0.047           0.086                          0.042                       0.128                     0.046                             1.693  1.914
3 bedroom  0.052           0.234                          0.123                       0.357                     0.118                             2.526  3.053
 
Source: Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants,
Inc., Naperville, IL 1996
(Ord. 2003-O-09, 5-6-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
2 2. 765 ILCS 90/1 et seq.
3 3. 430 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
9-3-8: NOTIFICATION OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS AND APPLICABLE TAXING
DISTRICTS:
   A.   Affidavit To Be Filed: The petitioner(s) for any approval of any
preliminary plat of subdivision shall file with the Village Administrator an
affidavit identifying the owners of all property, whether under the
jurisdiction of a municipality or within an unincorporated area, within one
thousand feet (1,000'), excluding rights of way of public streets, in each
direction from all points on the perimeter of the property which is the subject
of their petition (and the respective permanent index numbers of such
properties), and said affidavit shall in any event include at least the six (6)
nearest property owners (and the respective permanent index numbers of such
properties) within the Village; provided, however, that for the purpose of this
section, ownership may be determined on the basis of the last available tax
records of the county. The petitioner(s) shall also provide to the Village
Administrator, along with the required affidavit, mailing envelopes (without
any return address), with all postage required for such mailing affixed
thereto, addressed to each owner listed on such affidavit and, in addition, the
petitioner(s) shall also provide one copy of all of the tax map(s) covering all
permanent index numbers listed on such affidavit in the same scale as
maintained by the Lake County clerk's map department. The Village Administrator
will use the envelopes provided by the petitioner(s) to cause written notice to
be sent by regular U.S. mail, at the petitioner's expense, not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the initial public hearing before the
plan commission thereon, to those persons listed and identified in an affidavit
provided by the applicant(s) and/or the petitioner(s).
   B.   Public Hearing Notification Signs Required:
      1.   Signs Required: In addition to any other notice that may be required
by this section, the Village Administrator shall determine the number of signs
required to be posted on the respective property, however, a minimum of one (1)
sign is required. After the conclusion of the required public hearing(s) before
the Plan Commission, and after the conclusion of any action on the matter by
the Village's Board of Trustees, the Village will provide to the Petitioner an
invoice for the creation, posting, and removal of the required signage. The
Petitioner is required to pay said invoice and reimburse the Village within
thirty (30) days of the date of said invoice.
      2.   Content Of Each Sign: Each sign shall contain the following
information with all required lettering a minimum of two inches (2") in height:
   VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
   PLAN COMMISSION
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
   CONCERNING THIS PROPERTY TO BE
   HELD AT [INSERT TIME]
   ON [INSERT DAY, DATE, AND YEAR]
   AT THE VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON
   MUNICIPAL CENTER
   23860 N. OLD BARRINGTON ROAD
   FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL
   (847) 381-6010
   SUBJECT: [INSERT BRIEF DESCRIPTION]
      3.   Size: Each sign shall have at least one display surface which shall
have a minimum dimension of four feet (4') in height and four feet (4') in
width.
      4.   Placement Of Signs: One public hearing notification sign shall be
posted on the subject property at a location oriented to and readable from the
nearest adjacent roadway. However, additional signs shall be required where a
parcel abuts two (2) or more roadways, and in such cases, one such sign shall
be oriented to and shall be readable from each abutting roadway. Such signs
must be constructed of materials which will withstand existing area weather
conditions.
      5.   Duration; Removal: Public hearing notification signs must be posted
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the scheduled
public hearing on the petition or application, and shall not be removed by the
village or by the petitioner(s) until after the initial date of the scheduled
public hearing on the petition or application. The Village's sign contractor
shall remove the subject signage after being notified by the Village to do so.
      6.   Reimbursement: After the conclusion of the required public hearing
(s) before the Plan Commission, and after the conclusion of any action on the
matter by the Village's Board of Trustees, the respective applicant(s) and/or
petitioner(s) shall reimburse the Village for the actual out of pocket expenses
incurred or to be incurred by the Village for the fabrication, posting, and
removal of the sign or signs by the Village's sign contractor as required by
this section. The petitioner and/or applicant shall reimburse the Village
within thirty (30) days of the petitioner's receipt of an invoice from the
Village for the required signage. No permit(s) and/or approval(s) shall be
issued by the Village until and unless all amounts owed to the Village relative
to the subject application and/or petition have been paid in full.
      7.   Rules: The village administrator is authorized and empowered to
establish such reasonable rules and regulations governing the posting of
notification signs not inconsistent with the provisions of this section to
carry out the intent of this section to provide notice of proposed hearings
which rules may be necessary due to unique characteristics of the subject
property or application.
   C.   Failure To Comply: Any failure to comply with subsections A and/or B of
this section shall not invalidate any action taken by the village on any such
petition or application. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2025-O-13, 7-1-
2025)
9-3-9: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of the
subdivision regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the effective date hereof shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of
the adoption of the subdivision regulations. To the extent that a subdivision
of land is in conflict with the requirements of these regulations, said
subdivision remains unlawful.
   C.   Nothing contained in the subdivision regulations shall be deemed to be
a consent, license or permit to use or subdivide land.
   D.   The provisions of the subdivision regulations are cumulative and
additional limitations upon all other laws and ordinances previously passed or
which may be passed in the future, covering any subject matter in the
subdivision regulations. (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION PLATS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Procedure For Approval Of Subdivisions
9-4-2: Sketch Plan
9-4-3: Preliminary Plat And Plan
9-4-4: Action On Preliminary Plat
9-4-5: Final Plat Submission
9-4-6: Actions On Final Plat
9-4-7: Amendments To Plats Or Engineering
9-4-1: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISIONS:
All applicants for subdivision approval shall notify the Village Clerk of their
intention to subdivide land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the Village.
(Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-4-2: SKETCH PLAN:
   A.   Request For Conference: All applicants for subdivision are encouraged
to request a sketch plan conference with Village staff to consider the general
objectives and concept of the proposed subdivision and its possible effects on
the neighborhood and Village. No fees are required from the subdivider during
the sketch plan process.
   B.   Conference With Village Staff: During the sketch plan conference, the
subdivider can obtain Village input early in the subdivision process, prior to
incurring the costs of preparing formal plats. The Village staff can provide
the subdivider with an initial evaluation based on a Villagewide perspective.
   C.   Contents Of Sketch Plan: The sketch plan should contain at least the
following information:
      1.   Development Name: Proposed development name using a name unique to
the Village to provide clear identification from other subdivisions whether
existing or under consideration.
      2.   Location; Description: Location and description of the property.
      3.   Ownership: Ownership information including name, address and
telephone number of the legal owner, beneficial owner or owners and any persons
enjoying options or rights to acquire the property.
      4.   Existing Rights Of Way; Easements: Identification of any existing
legal rights of way or easements that are on or affect the property.
      5.   Existing Covenants: Identification of all existing covenants on the
property or a statement that there are none.
      6.   Preliminary Analysis And Inventory: The inventory and analysis
should consider the property and surrounding area for a distance of not less
than one thousand feet (1,000') for subdivisions with ten (10) or more lots and
five hundred feet (500') for subdivisions of less than ten (10) lots in terms
of topography, soils and geology, waterways, wetlands, wildlife, drainage,
vegetation, adjacent land uses and zoning, utilities, roadways, trails and
other information necessary to prepare a plat that meets the standards of the
Village.
      7.   Sketch Plat: The sketch plat should show proposed uses, densities,
lot and roadway layout, water supply, sewerage, storm water management,
conservation and landscaping and other relevant features. (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-
1989)
9-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT AND PLAN:
When the owner of land lying within the corporate limits of the Village or
within the subdivision jurisdiction of the Village desires to subdivide, the
owner shall submit to the Board of Trustees a completed application for
preliminary plat approval, on a form provided by the Village Clerk, together
with twenty (20) prints or copies of the proposed preliminary plat, drawn to a
scale of not smaller than one hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1"), with
supporting sheets showing the proposed plan of subdivision. The preliminary
plat shall show all information which should be shown on a sketch plan as
specified in Section
9-4-2 of this Chapter and the following additional information:
   A.   Proposed Boundaries: The boundaries of the proposed subdivision and the
distances between corners and the total acreage contained.
   B.   Information Of Professionals And Technicians: The name of the proposed
subdivision, the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner(s),
developer(s), attorney(s), surveyor(s), engineer(s) and other professionals and
technicians who prepared the plat and/or are responsible for the project.
   C.   Date; Scale; Arrow: Date, graphic scale and north arrow.
   D.   Existing Boundaries: The location of existing corporate boundary lines
at or near the proposed subdivision.
   E.   Adjoining Lands: The character of the lands immediately adjoining the
proposed subdivision for a minimum distance of one thousand feet (1,000') for
subdivisions with ten (10) or more lots and five hundred feet (500') for
subdivisions of less than ten (10) lots, showing any adjoining subdivisions and
the location and dimensions of public streets, alleys, public utility
easements, street pavements, sanitary sewer mains, storm water mains and water
supply mains.
   F.   Zoning Classification: The zoning classification of the lands proposed
to be subdivided under Title 8 of this Code or zoning ordinances of Lake County
and the zoning classification of all adjoining properties and the governmental
authority having jurisdiction of the zoning of adjoining properties.
   G.   Existing Streets; Utilities: The location within the proposed
subdivision of any existing public streets, alleys, public utility easements,
street pavements, sanitary sewer mains, storm sewer mains, water supply mains,
watercourses, bridges, culverts and similar facilities and the location of
existing buildings.
   H.   Proposed Open Spaces: The names, locations, widths and other dimensions
of proposed streets, alleys, easements, dedicated school sites, parks,
playgrounds and other open spaces proposed to be provided.
   I.   Blocks And Lots: The blocks and lots into which the project is proposed
to be subdivided, with the dimensions.
   J.   Ground Elevations: Ground elevations on the tract shall be shown, using
one foot (1') contours for land that slopes less than one-half of one percent
(0.50%) and two foot (2') contours for land that slopes one-half of one percent
(0.50%) or more.
   K.   Street Grading Plan: Preliminary street grading plan showing existing
and proposed streets with their established and proposed grades.
   L.   Lot Grading Plan: Preliminary lot grading plan showing the individual
grading for each lot including suggested top of foundation elevation, drainage
around the houses, any proposed swales and other drainage and erosion elements
and four (4) lot corners.
   M.   Description Of Required Improvements: A general description of the
type, kind, character and extent of required improvements proposed to be
constructed or installed.
   N.   Floodplain Lines: Floodplain lines shall be shown based on maps and/or
other documents adopted by the Village as part of any applicable floodplain
regulations of the Village.
   O.   Soil Classification And Soil Borings:
      1.   Soil Classification Maps: A soil classification map and a drawing
showing the location of the soil boring or borings performed on each lot shall
be provided at the same scale as the preliminary plat in accordance with this
Section. The soil classification map shall be prepared by a certified soil
classifier, trained and experienced in the soil classification system of the
Natural Resources Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
and found or recognized to be so qualified by such Natural Resources
Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture or by the Lake
County Health Department. The soil borings shall be performed by or under the
direction of such certified soil classifier or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in the State. Such soil borings shall also be
utilized to determine the seasonally high water table and anticipated normal
water table on each lot. The following information shall appear on the drawing:
         a.   The boundaries of the various soil types occurring within the
subdivision with each type indicated by both soil identification number and
name.
         b.   The location of all soil borings.
         c.   The location of all ground water test holes.
         d.   The layout of the proposed subdivision as shown on the
preliminary plat.
         e.   The existing topography within the area proposed for subdivision.
Soil survey interpretation sheets shall be submitted for each soil type
encountered within the proposed subdivision. Such soil evaluation and mapping
shall comply with the requirements of Title 12, Chapter 6 of this Code.
      2.   Private Sewage Treatment And Disposal Systems:
         a.   General: The Village Board may, when it deems necessary for the
health, comfort, safety and general welfare of the present or future population
of the area and necessary to the conservation of water supplies and drainage
sources, prohibit the subdivision of land requiring the use of septic tank and
effluent disposal systems for the disposal of sanitary wastes. If a septic tank
system is permitted, every lot in a subdivision shall have a suitable area of
sufficient size to accommodate a septic system equivalent to two (2) times the
disposal requirements for a five (5) bedroom luxury home, in accordance with
the criteria for sizing seepage field based upon soil classifications and other
applicable provisions of Title 12 of this Code, as amended from time to time,
which Title is incorporated herein by reference. The proposed locations of the
primary and expansion field shall be shown on the drawing. A certificate by the
subdivider's engineer shall be furnished stating that each lot within the
subdivision has sufficient suitable area within its boundary to accommodate
both a septic system and reserve field, both sized in accordance with the
standards of Title 12 of this Code.
   P.   Summary Of Restrictions: A summary of all restrictions intended to be
imposed by the final plat or by deeds of conveyance on the use of all property
within the subdivision including the area of buildings for residence use.
   Q.   Approval For Roadway Access From County: If the preliminary plat
provides for roadway access to a right of way under the jurisdiction of the
County, the applicant shall provide written evidence of approval of said
preliminary plat from the County Superintendent of Highways.
   R.   Approval For Roadway Access From Department Of Transportation: If the
preliminary plat provides for roadway access to a right of way under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation, the applicant shall
provide written evidence of approval of said preliminary plat from the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   S.   Private Sewage Disposal Systems: If any part of the subdivision will be
served by individual private sewage disposal systems, the applicant shall
provide written evidence of the approval of the preliminary plat of subdivision
by the County Health Department.
   T.   Other Information: Other information and data that the Plan Commission
may require for the full and complete consideration of the proposed plan of
subdivision. (Ord. 98-O-25, 11-2-1998)
9-4-4: ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Action By The Enforcing Officer: When a complete application for a
preliminary plat approval is received by the enforcement officer, the enforcing
officer shall forward such application and the required supporting documents to
the Plan Commission for consideration and the enforcing officer shall provide
copies at that time to the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 93-O-32, 10-5-1993)
   B.   Plan Commission Action:
      1.   After receiving an application for preliminary plat approval, the
Plan Commission shall consider the proposed plan of subdivision and approve or
disapprove it.
      2.   If the proposed subdivision plan is not approved as presented, the
Plan Commission may permit the subdivider to make the changes and additions
required.
      3.   After approval, the Plan Commission shall transmit a copy of the
approved preliminary plat and all supporting data to the Board of Trustees,
together with a letter of transmittal calling attention to all variances (if
any) approved by the Plan Commission and setting forth its reason for approving
such variances. At this time, the applicant shall provide ten (10) copies of
the preliminary plat and all supporting documents as approved by the Plan
Commission to the Board of Trustees. At least one approved print or copy of the
preliminary plat and one copy of all supporting documents submitted shall
remain on file with the Plan Commission.
      4.   After approval of the preliminary plat by the Plan Commission, the
Village Clerk will notify the appropriate school district and request the
school district to provide either written acceptance of the school donation or
submit written objections to the donation.
   C.   Approval By Board Of Trustees: When and if the Board of Trustees is
satisfied with the preliminary plat and all supporting data and all proposed
conditions relating to the subdivision, the Board of Trustees shall, by
resolution, approve the preliminary plat, and authorize and direct the Village
President and Village Clerk to sign the plat for and in the name of the Village
and attach the Corporate Seal; provided, however, prior to approval by the
Board of Trustees, the applicant shall submit the following:
      1.   If the preliminary plat provides for roadway access to a right of
way under the jurisdiction of the County, the applicant shall provide written
evidence of approval of said plat from the County Superintendent of Highways.
      2.   If the preliminary plat provides for roadway access to a right of
way under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of approval of said plat from the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      3.   If any part of the subdivision will be served by individual private
sewage disposal systems, the applicant shall provide written evidence of the
approval of the preliminary plat of subdivision from the County Health
Department.
   D.   Disapproval Of Preliminary Plat: If the proposed plan of subdivision as
shown on the preliminary plat is disapproved by either the Plan Commission or
the Board of Trustees, the original plat shall be returned to the subdivider,
with a written statement of the reasons for disapproval.
   E.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat: If the proposed plan of subdivision as
shown on the preliminary plat is approved by the Plan Commission and the Board
of Trustees, the original plat and one print or copy of the plat shall be
endorsed as follows:
The proposed plan of subdivision as shown on this plat and accompanying
documents has received tentative approval by the Village of Lake Barrington,
subject to any restrictions and comments.
   PLAN COMMISSION OF VILLAGE OF
   LAKE BARRINGTON
By:    
   Chairman
Dated:    
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF VILLAGE OF
   LAKE BARRINGTON
By:    
         Village President
Attest:    
Village Clerk
Dated:    
(Ord. 90-O-5, 3-6-1990)
9-4-5: FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION:
   A.   Submission Required: After the Plan Commission has approved the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall, within one calendar year, submit to the
plan commission a final plat of the subdivision in final form for recording,
which shall be in strict accordance with the form for recording and the
preliminary plat as approved by the plan commission, together with twenty (20)
prints or copies. If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute
only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the subdivider
proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, that such portion
conforms to the preliminary plat.
   B.   Final Plat Specifications: The final plat shall be drawn on tracing
cloth, Mylar or equivalent material to a scale of not less than one hundred
feet to one inch (100' = 1"). It shall show the following:
      1.   The name or names of the owners of the property.
      2.   The name of the registered land surveyor who prepared the plat and
the date.
      3.   The legal description of the property subdivided.
      4.   Boundary of the plat, based on accurate traverse, with angular and
linear dimensions.
      5.   Location of all permanent monuments.
      6.   All other measurements, dimensions, data and certificates required
by 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1.
      7.   If a subdivision is not located within the corporate limits of the
village and there is a tract or tracts dedicated for a public use, the
certificate of dedication shall provide that the future official act of
annexation to the village shall constitute a transfer of the title to such
tract or tracts to the village for such public use.
   C.   Supporting Documents: Twenty (20) copies of the following supporting
documents and data shall be submitted to the plan commission with the final
plat: (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
      1.   Final Street Grading Plan And Profiles: The final street grading
plan shall show the existing centerline elevations of all streets and alleys in
the subdivision and the centerline elevations of pavements to be constructed.
Elevations shall be referred to some permanent bench mark. Profiles shall be
drawn to a horizontal scale of twenty feet to one inch (20' = 1") and vertical
scale of five feet to one inch (5' = 1").
      2.   Final Lot Grading Plan And Profiles: The final lot grading plan
shall show the top of foundation elevation, garage floor elevation, low opening
elevations, all corners of the lot, drainage elements and spot elevations to
show the surface drainage system. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
      3.   Statement By Subdivider: A detailed statement by the subdivider
setting forth the nature, kind, character and extent of all the improvements
that will be constructed in the subdivision together with complete plans,
profiles and specifications clearly described along with a binding agreement by
the subdivider to construct the same at the subdivider's own expense within the
time limit fixed by the plan commission.
      4.   Statement By Competent Engineer: A statement by a competent engineer
giving an estimate of the total cost of the construction or installation of all
improvements, including the cost of engineering and inspection.
      5.   Certificate Of Village Engineer: A certificate by the village
engineer or other competent person appointed by the board of trustees
certifying that the improvements described in the subdivider's statement and as
shown by the plans, profiles and specifications meet the minimum requirements
of the village and that the estimate of cost of construction and installation
in the opinion of the village engineer is substantially correct.
      6.   Performance And Maintenance Guarantee: A performance guarantee and a
maintenance guarantee in accordance with the provisions of these subdivision
regulations to assure the satisfactory installation and completion of all
improvements and their repair within the time limits established in accordance
with the provisions and requirements by these subdivision regulations. The
board of trustees shall not approve any application for the final plat until
both the performance and maintenance guarantee provisions have been complied
with. (Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-4-6: ACTIONS ON FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Approval By Plan Commission: When the plan commission has approved the
final plat, the following shall be written or stamped upon such plat and the
two (2) prints or copies:
Approved by the Plan Commission of the Village of Lake Barrington subject to
any restrictions and comments, this         day of          A.D.       .
Chair
After such approval, the Plan Commission shall then transmit the approved final
plat and one copy or print to the Village Board of Trustees, together with a
letter of transmittal calling attention to all variances (if any) approved by
the Plan Commission and setting forth its reason for approving such variances.
The originals and one copy of all supporting documents presented to the Plan
Commission shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees. One approved print or
copy of the final plat and one copy of all supporting documents submitted shall
remain on file with the Plan Commission.
   B.   Approval By Board Of Trustees: When and if the Board of Trustees is
satisfied with the final plat and with all improvements, conditions and
documents pertaining to the subdivision, the Board of Trustees shall, by
resolution, approve the plat and authorize and direct the Village President and
Village Clerk to sign the plat for and in the name of the Village and attach
the Corporate Seal; provided, however, prior to approval by the Board of
Trustees, the applicant shall submit the following:
      1.   If the final plat provides for roadway access to a right of way
under the jurisdiction of the County, the applicant shall provide written
evidence of approval of said final plat from the County Superintendent of
Highways.
      2.   If the final plat provides for roadway access to a right of way
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of approval of said final plat from
the Illinois Department of Transportation.
      3.   If any part of the subdivision will be served by individual private
sewage disposal systems, the applicant shall provide written evidence of the
approval of the final plat of subdivision from the County Health Department.
   C.   Recording Of Final Plat: The Village Clerk shall retain the final plat
as approved and upon payment by the subdivider to the Village Clerk of the
estimated cost of recording shall record the plat in the office of the Recorder
of Lake County, Illinois. The supporting documents transmitted with said final
plat to the Board of Trustees shall be filed in the office of the Village
Clerk. After recording, the final plat shall remain on file in the office of
the Village Clerk and the print or copy of the final plat, with copy of the
approval by the Board of Trustees and one copy of all supporting documents
shall be delivered to the subdivider.
   D.   Notification Of Applicable Districts: The Village Clerk shall notify
the applicable school, library, park and fire districts of final plat approval.
(Ord. 89-O-06, 2-7-1989)
9-4-7: AMENDMENTS TO PLATS OR ENGINEERING:
Any substantive amendments, revisions, modifications or corrections made to a
preliminary or final plat or the related engineering plans and specifications
after approval thereof by the Board of Trustees, except those amendments,
revisions, modifications or corrections which were conditions of such approval,
shall be considered by the Plan Commission and thereafter be made the subject
of a recommendation by the Plan Commission to approve or disapprove same. An
amendment, revision, modification or correction shall be deemed to be
substantive if in the respective opinions of any two (2) of the following
officials of the Village: the Village President, Chairman of the Plan
Commission, the Enforcement Officer, Village Engineer, Village Attorney, such
amendment, revision, modification or correction would affect a material aspect
of the plat or related engineering plans and specifications and would not have
been reasonably expected by the Plan Commission. (Ord. 91-O-25, 10-1-1991)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Minimum Requirements
9-5-2: Standards Of Design
9-5-3: Required Improvements
9-5-4: Technical Noncompliance By Certain Previously Platted Lots Of Record
9-5-5: Appendices
9-5-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
All subdivisions shall comply with the design standards set forth below, and
the construction of all subdivision improvements shall also be in accordance
with, and materials used shall be in compliance with, the methods and materials
required in the appropriate sections of the latest editions, amendments, or
revisions of the following:
   A.   All applicable Village ordinances, standards, and specifications as
adopted.
   B.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", Illinois
Department of Transportation (IDOT).
   C.   "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois", Illinois Society of Professional Engineers, et al.
   D.   "Illinois Design Standards for Sewage Works", Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA), Division of Water Pollution Control.
   E.   "Technical Policy Statements", IEPA, Division of Public Water Supply.
   F.   Lake County Board of Health ordinances, Lake County Health Department.
   G.   "Watershed Development Ordinance", Lake County Stormwater Management
Commission.
   H.   "Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control in Illinois", the Urban Committee of the Association of Illinois Soil
and Water Conservation Districts (commonly known as the "green book").
   I.   "Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control",
IEPA (commonly known as the "yellow book").
   J.   "U.S. Soil Conservation Service Field Engineering Handbook".
   K.   "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", U.S. Department of
Transportation and Illinois Department of Transportation supplement.
   L.   "Bureau of Local Roads and Streets Manual", IDOT Division of Highways.
   M.   "Drainage Manual", IDOT Bureau of Bridges and Structures.
   N.   "Culvert Manual", IDOT Bureau of Bridges and Structures.
Where the regulations imposed by any provision of this title are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable regulations for the same site
imposed by any other provision of this Code, the above stated references, or
any other law, ordinances, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
9-5-2: STANDARDS OF DESIGN:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   General:
         a.   Streets provide convenient access to all property within the
subdivision.
         b.   The proposed street system of each subdivision shall be extended
to or interconnected with existing adjoining streets unless the extension would
not be practical, but in lieu of such connection, an emergency access easement
or right-of-way may be provided if approved by the Village Engineer, the
applicable fire protection district, and the Board of Trustees.
         c.   Where, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be
extended to the boundary of such property. (Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007)
      2.   Right Of Way Widths:
         a.   The minimum right of way width of a street (both public and
private) or thoroughfare, measured between the lines of property abutting upon
the right of way, shall be not less than the following:
            (1)   Business/commercial and industrial: Eighty feet (80').
            (2)   Residential streets: Sixty six feet (66').
            (3)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum length of three hundred feet
(300') from the center of the intersecting street to the center of a circular
terminus. The circular terminus shall have a minimum right of way diameter of
one hundred twenty feet (120') and a minimum pavement diameter of ninety feet
(90'). The connecting length from the circular terminus to the intersecting
street shall have a right of way width of sixty six feet (66'). Cul-de-sacs
shall be considered as and shall be classified as residential streets in all
other respects for the purposes of these regulations.
         b.   In the case of the extension of an existing adjoining right of
way having a width less than the minimum requirement, the plan commission may
approve the extension of the same width.
         c.   The entire right of way shall be provided where any part of the
subdivision is on both sides of the right of way.
         d.   When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing
right of way, which is less than the required width, the subdivider shall
provide additional right of way to meet the requirement.
      3.   Curves: Curves in streets shall be permitted; provided, no
horizontal curve shall be less than three hundred feet (300') for residential
streets and at least three hundred fifty feet (350') for major and collector
streets.
      4.   Street Names: Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment or
continuation of existing streets already named shall bear the name of such
existing streets. In no case shall the name for proposed streets duplicate
existing street names within the area covered by any Barrington zip code,
irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, road, boulevard, drive,
place, court, lane or an abbreviation.
   B.   Alleys: Alleys may be required at the rear of all lots or tracts
intended for business, commercial or industrial use, but shall not be provided
in residential blocks except where the subdivider produces evidence
satisfactory to the plan commission of the need for alleys. If approved, alleys
shall meet street construction standards. Where no alleys are provided, there
shall be dedicated easements adequate in width for emergency vehicle access.
   C.   Easements: Where no alleys are provided, there shall be dedicated
easements adequate in width for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary
sewer, gas, water or other utility pipes or lines, along the rear of each lot
and along the side lot lines where necessary to satisfy all applicable
requirements of the private or public utility serving the area. The easement
shall be so laid out that a proper continuity may be had for such utilities
from lot to lot and from block to block. No buildings shall be constructed upon
the easements.
   D.   Blocks: Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers of lots,
except where fronting on major streets or prevented by topographical conditions
or size of the property, in which case the plan commission may approve a single
tier of lots.
   E.   Lots:
      1.   Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      2.   The area of lots shall be not less than that required by title 8 of
this code or not less than that required by the county zoning ordinance
applicable to the land being subdivided; provided, a greater area may be
required for such lots if, in the opinion of the village or the Lake County
health department, there are factors of drainage, soil condition, water supply
or other conditions which may affect public health and safety. The plan
commission shall require that data from percolation and other tests be
submitted as a basis for passing upon proposed subdivisions dependent upon
septic tanks as a means of sewerage disposal.
      3.   The size of lots or tracts laid out and intended for business use
shall be adequate to provide for off street service and parking facilities
required by the type of use and development contemplated.
      4.   The size and width of lots located in the village shall in no case
be less than the minimum requirements of title 8 of this code, as amended from
time to time, provided, however, the following standards shall apply to all
lots subject to these regulations:
         a.   All lots containing an area less than eighty thousand (80,000)
square feet shall have a minimum width of one hundred thirty feet (130') as
measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from the front property line
of the lot which abuts or is immediately adjacent to any right of way dedicated
or to be dedicated for public use;
         b.   All lots containing an area of eighty thousand (80,000) square
feet or more, but less than two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet, shall
have a minimum width of one hundred ninety feet (190') as measured at a
distance of thirty feet (30') back from the front property line of the lot
which abuts or is immediately adjacent to any right of way dedicated or to be
dedicated for public use;
         c.   All lots containing an area of two hundred thousand (200,000)
square feet or more shall have a minimum width of three hundred feet (300') as
measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from the front property line
of the lot which abuts or is immediately adjacent to any right of way dedicated
or to be dedicated for public use;
         d.   Each lot shall front upon (i.e., be immediately adjacent or
contiguous to) a right of way dedicated or to be dedicated for public use;
         e.   Each lot shall have a minimum frontage or minimum width where it
abuts or is immediately adjacent to any right of way dedicated or to be
dedicated for public use of one-third (1/3) of the minimum lot width as
specified in subsections E4a, E4b and E4c of this section, as applicable to the
given case;
         f.   Flag lots shall be prohibited.
      5.   Every lot shall contain a suitable building site that shall contain
a minimum area of thirty three thousand (33,000) square feet, excluding: areas
where slopes are in excess of fifteen percent (15%), floodplains, land
incapable of meeting percolation requirements, historic or prehistoric burial
sites, land formerly used for landfill operations or hazardous industrial use,
fault areas, stream corridors, estuaries, wetlands, marshes, bogs, fens, lakes,
ponds, and other bodies of water.
   F.   Building Setback Lines: The minimum building setback from any street on
land located in the village shall be as established by title 8 of this code.
All building setback lines shall be parallel with the applicable lot lines.
   G.   Natural Features: In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the
preservation of natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical
sites and similar other community assets. The subdivider shall fully comply
with the requirements of title 11, chapter 1 of this code.
      1.   All disturbed areas within the subdivision shall be restored by
placing a minimum of three inches (3") of topsoil and seeding. Consideration
shall be given to restoring some areas with natural growths of wildflowers,
ground cover or similar material.
      2.   Existing trees shall be preserved and/or replaced in accordance with
title 11, chapter 1 of this code. The trees required under subsection 9-5-3E of
this chapter shall not be counted as replacement trees for the purpose of title
11, chapter 1 of this code.
      3.   All slopes greater than three to one (3:1) shall be restored by
means of sod or suitable ground cover.
   H.   Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance: There is hereby adopted by
reference, and thereby made a part of these Subdivision Regulations, the Lake
County Watershed Development Ordinance, as amended from time to time and as
adopted in Section
10-1-1, "Stormwater Management Regulations; Lake County Watershed Development
Ordinance Adopted", of the Lake Barrington Village Code. (Ord. 97-O-06, 3-18-
1997; amd. Ord. 98-O-25, 11-2-1998; Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021)
9-5-3: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Stormwater Drainage: An adequate stormwater drainage system shall be
utilized throughout all subdivisions or developments within the village. The
system shall include stormwater conveyance in combination with one or more
stormwater management basins. The system shall be designed and constructed to
meet the applicable requirements of:
      1.   The Village:
         a.   The storm drainage and surface water control system shall be
approved by the village engineer. Computations may be required for the entire
watershed or drainage basin of which the subdivision is a part.
         b.   Special consideration shall be given to avoiding potential
problems which may arise from storm water runoff onto adjacent properties.
         c.   Storm water runoff flowing onto a proposed development parcel
from any upstream tributary areas shall be conveyed through the proposed
development by a method of "bypass" or detained on site in addition to runoff
storage required for the development. If upstream runoff is "bypassed" through
the development, the location at which the bypass flow leaves the development
shall not be changed. In addition, the bypass flow shall be attenuated through
the development to the extent that the rate of the bypass flow shall not be
increased over the rate at which it flows from the development site in its
existing condition.
      2.   The State: The state, including, but not limited to, the plat act of
the state of Illinois.
      3.   Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance (WDO): "Watershed
development ordinance", Lake County storm water management commission, as
adopted by the village.
      4.   Government Agency: Any applicable requirements and regulations of
the United States government, or agency, including, but not limited to,
requirements and regulations of the federal emergency management agency,
federal insurance administration or environmental condition indicated on any
flood hazard map of the federal flood administration of the United States
department of housing and urban development.
         a.   The selection of methods for design of a storm water drainage
system shall follow the hierarchy as found in section IV.B.1.d. (pg. 13) of the
WDO.
         b.   Overland flow paths, including swales, and drainage ditches shall
be designed to convey runoff for return frequencies up to and including one
hundred (100) years with a runoff coefficient determined by the existing and
proposed conditions including flood hazard areas.
         c.   Ditches and/or swales with culvert pipes shall be designed and
constructed of the size and slope to transport the runoff flow as calculated by
the above described methods. The slope from the shoulder line to ditch bottom
shall not be steeper than four to one (4:1) and the back slope not steeper than
four to one (4:1). Fill sections shall have a slope not greater than four to
one (4:1). The minimum longitudinal slope shall be one percent (1%).
            (1)   Culverts under all subdivision roads shall have a minimum
equivalent diameter of fifteen inches (15").
            (2)   Culverts under all lot access drives shall have a minimum
equivalent diameter of twelve inches (12").
            (3)   Culverts shall be reinforced concrete pipe in accordance with
the appropriate section(s) of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", Illinois Department of Transportation, latest edition, provided,
however, polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") or polyethylene ("PE") pipe, in accordance
with the appropriate section(s) of the "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", will be allowed for driveway culverts only if and when
approved by the Village Engineer. Only reinforced concrete flared end sections
with toe blocks, and not corrugated metal or PVC flared end sections shall
hereafter be used with all culvert installations, except where the Village
Engineer determines that existing site conditions necessitate the use of a
different material for the flared end sections as directed by the Village
Engineer. The PVC or PE pipe shall have a smooth interior, water tight joints,
and a minimum stiffness rating of SDR 26.
         d.   Creeks, rivers, and storm water management basins shall be
designed for a return frequency of one hundred (100) years with a runoff
coefficient determined by the existing and proposed conditions.
         e.   The detention volume required shall be calculated using a rating
curve based on maximum release rates of 0.04 cubic feet per second per acre for
the 2-year, 24-hour storm event and 0.05 cubic feet per second per acre for the
100-year, 24-hour storm event. The release rate requirement shall apply to the
hydrologically disturbed area of the ownership parcel unless the enforcement
officer determines that specific locations of the development site have unique
circumstances such that the release rate shall apply to a broader or smaller
area.
         f.   (1) Storm water management basins, or the equivalent, shall be
provided in the subdivision so that the runoff of surface water shall be
limited in accordance with these provisions. Such storm water management
basins, or the equivalent, shall be designed:
               (A)   To provide for the effect on property located downstream
from such subdivision;
               (B)   To provide for the effect on areas surrounding the
subdivision affected by rainfall and the surface water runoff from such
subdivision;
               (C)   To take into effect any environmental conditions indicated
on any flood hazard map of the federal emergency management agency, federal
insurance administration and any applicable requirement or regulation; and
               (D)   In accordance with the provisions of this section, where
waterways, channels, ditches, streams or rivers are traversed.
            (2)   Except where inconsistent with the watershed development
ordinance (title 10, chapter 1 of this code), or except where inconsistent with
good engineering practice as determined by the village engineer:
               (A)   All storm water management basins, or the equivalent,
storm water management basin buffers, and the shorelines of ponds and streams,
shall be planted and thereafter maintained with vegetation native to northern
Illinois as described in the "Native Planting Guide" on file with the village,
and such vegetation shall be approved in advance by the village engineer as
appropriate to a specific site.
               (B)   All storm water management basins shall be graded to
natural shape.
         g.   If storm sewers are to be provided for the conveyance of storm
water, they shall be designed and constructed of the size and slope to
transport the runoff flow from a 10-year frequency storm event. Overland flood
routing shall be provided for flows exceeding the capacity of the storm sewers
as required in subsection A4b of this section.
            (1)   Minimum storm sewer size for the main line shall be twelve
inches (12").
            (2)   Storm sewer material shall be reinforced concrete pipe as
described in the appropriate section(s) of the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois department of transportation, latest
edition, unless otherwise approved by the village engineer.
            (3)   Storm sewers shall be laid straight in both horizontal and
vertical planes between structures unless otherwise approved in writing by the
village engineer.
            (4)   Storm sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", the pipe
manufacturer's recommendations, and these development standards.
            (5)   Manholes, catch basins and inlets shall be reinforced
concrete as described in the appropriate sections of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
            (6)   Manholes shall be provided at:
               (A)   Changes in direction - horizontal or vertical;
               (B)   Changes in shape or size of pipe;
               (C)   Junction of pipes;
               (D)   Maximum spacing of manholes should be in accordance with
the following:
 
Size Of Pipe (Inches) Maximum Distance (Feet)
 10-24                350
 27-36                400
 42-54                500
 60 and greater       1,000
 
            (7)   Inlets shall be provided at all low points and at other
locations consistent with the terrain to collect and deliver storm water runoff
to the storm sewers without causing excess inundation.
   B.   Sanitary Sewerage: Any individual sewage disposal systems (septic
system) shall meet all the requirements of, and shall be approved by, the
village and Lake County health department. Any other sanitary sewerage
facilities shall meet all the requirements of, and shall be approved by, the
Village, the Lake County Health Department, and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency. In the event of conflict or inconsistency among the
requirements of these jurisdictions, the most restrictive requirements shall
apply.
   C.   Water Supply: Any individual water supply shall meet all requirements
of, and shall be approved by, the Lake County Health Department. Any water
supply designated as public water supply shall meet the requirements of the
Village and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   D.   Utility Services:
      1.   Building services shall be constructed to connect with the utility
service mains constructed within any street or thoroughfare, to serve each
adjoining lot, tract or building site. Such building services shall extend from
the main to a point at least eight feet (8') beyond the outside lines of the
proposed roadway pavement in the street and at least one foot (1') beyond the
outside lines of the proposed road pavement.
      2.   All such building services connected with utility mains constructed
within any street or thoroughfare shall be located at the approximate
centerline of each lot.
      3.   Upon completion of the construction of all such building service
connections with utility mains, an accurate map or maps showing the exact
locations of all such mains, together with manholes, shutoff valves and other
similar facilities being a part thereof, by distances in feet from street
lines, and of all such building service connections in distances in feet from
the side lot lines, shall be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   E.   Street Construction: Except as otherwise provided by these subdivision
regulations, construction of all streets and cul-de- sacs shall conform to the
typical section drawings found in section
9-5-5, "Appendices", of this chapter. These standards are the minimum
requirements.
      1.   Ditches Or Storm Sewers: Either ditches or storm sewers of adequate
size shall be provided for surface drainage. If ditches are constructed, the
slope from shoulder line to ditch shall not be steeper than four to one (4:1)
and the back slope not steeper than four to one (4:1). A two foot (2') minimum
ditch bottom width shall be provided with a minimum longitudinal grade of one
percent (1%) for grass lined ditches. Fill sections shall have a slope not
steeper than four to one (4:1).
      2.   Exposed Areas: All exposed areas shall be reseeded or sodded to
prevent erosion. Seeding and sodding shall conform to the appropriate sections
of the latest edition of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", as amended from time to time, which is expressly made a part of
this subsection by reference.
      3.   Street Grades: The grades of all streets shall be no greater than
seven percent (7%) and vertical curve lengths shall be designed for the
appropriate design speed and in accordance with the IDOT "Bureau of Local Roads
and Streets Manual". Except as otherwise provided herein, the plan and profile
of streets shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
      4.   Street Intersection: At all intersections controlled by traffic
signals, stop signs, or yield signs, each controlled street shall have a
minimum distance of one hundred twenty five feet (125') (as measured from the
centerline of the intersecting street) which shall be at a grade of no more
than two percent (2%).
      5.   Pavement Standards:
         a.   Pavement cross section materials and widths shall comply with the
typical sections in appendices A, B, C and D of this chapter.
         b.   All street pavements shall be designed by the structural design
methods outlined in the Illinois Department of Transportation "Bureau of Local
Roads and Streets Manual" and shall meet the minimum requirements and
thicknesses indicated in appendices A, B, C, and D of this chapter.
         c.   The subgrade for all pavements shall be prepared in accordance
with the applicable sections of the "Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction". Prior to proceeding with pavement installation, the
subgrade shall be inspected and approved by the Village Engineer for shape and
bearing capacity. The bearing capacity shall be determined by "proof rolling"
with a forty five thousand (45,000) pound rubber tired vehicle load which shall
be provided by the developer's contractor. Deflections of more than one inch
(1") under load shall be considered unsatisfactory. Unsatisfactory subgrade
shall be reworked until the proof roll is acceptable.
         d.   After approval of the subgrade and prior to placement of the
subbase or base course material, ground stabilization fabric shall be placed on
the subgrade. The material and installation shall be in accordance with the
appropriate sections of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         e.   Subbase granular material and aggregate base course shall be one
hundred percent (100%) crushed gravel or crushed stone of a CA-6 gradation
meeting the respective requirements for subbase granular material, type B and
aggregate base course, type B of the "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction". The material shall be placed to the required thickness
determined by the structural design methods outlined in the Illinois department
of transportation "Bureau Of Local Roads And Streets Manual" and shall meet the
minimum requirements and thicknesses indicated in appendices A, B, C and D of
this chapter.
         f.   The aggregate base course shall be installed and prepared in
accordance with the applicable sections of the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". Prior to proceeding with placement of the
bituminous binder and surface course, the base course shall be inspected and
approved by the village engineer for shape and bearing capacity. The bearing
capacity shall be determined by "proof rolling" with a forty five thousand
(45,000) pound rubber tired vehicle load which shall be provided by the
developer's contractor. Deflections of more than one-half inch (1/2") under
load shall be considered unsatisfactory. All areas of the base course not
meeting the proof roll requirements shall be reworked, or stabilized until the
proof roll is acceptable.
         g.   One of the following road design options, or a combination
thereof, shall be utilized, as determined by the village engineer:
            (1)   Option 1: Bituminous binder and surface course shall be
placed to the required thicknesses determined by the structural design
procedure or to the minimum thicknesses indicated on either appendix A, B, C or
D of this chapter. The material and installation shall meet the requirements
for bituminous concrete surface course, superpave, of the friction aggregate
mixture, and Ndesign specified and bituminous concrete binder course,
superpave, of the mixture composition, and Ndesign specified, in accordance
with the most recent bureau of design and environment "Special Provisions For
Superpave Bituminous Concrete Mixtures" and the appropriate sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". The initial lift of
surface course shall be installed to the top of the shoulder/gutter flag at an
approximate cross slope of one percent (1%). For minor residential streets,
this will provide for an initial surface course thickness of two and one-half
inches (21/2") at the centerline and four inches (4") at the edge of pavement.
When seventy five percent (75%) of the subdivision lots have been occupied by a
building for which an occupancy permit has been issued, the initial surface
course shall be edge grinded to a depth at the edge of pavement to allow for
final surface placement as shown in appendices A, B, C and D of this chapter.
The initial surface course along with the concrete shoulders and curbs and
gutters shall be inspected and approved by the village engineer after edge
grinding and prior to the placement of the final surface course.
            (2)   Option 2: Bituminous binder and surface course shall be
placed to the required thicknesses determined by the structural design
procedure or to the minimum thicknesses indicated on either appendix A, B, C or
D of this chapter. The material and installation shall meet the requirements
for bituminous concrete surface course, superpave, of the friction aggregate
mixture, and Ndesign specified and bituminous concrete binder course,
superpave, of the mixture composition, and Ndesign specified, in accordance
with the most recent bureau of design and environment "Special Provisions For
Superpave Bituminous Concrete Mixtures" and the appropriate sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". The binder course
shall be installed initially to the top of the shoulder/gutter flag at an
approximate cross slope of one percent (1%). For minor residential streets,
this will provide for a binder course thickness of two and one-half inches (21/
2") at the centerline and four inches (4") at the edge of pavement. When
seventy five percent (75%) of the subdivision lots have been occupied by a
building for which an occupancy permit has been issued, the binder course shall
be edge grinded to a depth at the edge of pavement to allow for surface
placement as shown in appendices A, B, C and D of this chapter. The binder
course along with the concrete shoulders and curbs and gutters shall be
inspected and approved by the village engineer after edge grinding and prior to
the placement of the surface course.
            (3)   Option 3: Bituminous binder and surface course shall be
placed to the required thicknesses determined by the structural design
procedure or to the minimum thicknesses indicated on either appendix A, B, C or
D of this chapter. The material and installation shall meet the requirements
for bituminous concrete surface course, superpave, of the friction aggregate
mixture, and Ndesign specified and bituminous concrete binder course,
superpave, of the mixture composition, and Ndesign specified, in accordance
with the most recent bureau of design and environment "Special Provisions For
Superpave Bituminous Concrete Mixtures" and the appropriate sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". The surface course
shall not be placed until at least seventy five percent (75%) of the
subdivision lots have been occupied by a building for which an occupancy permit
has been issued unless, at fifty percent (50%) occupancy, the developer agrees
to place an additional one and one-half inches (11/2") of binder course, and
then immediately thereafter puts the surface course in place.
         h.   Portland cement concrete pavements shall be placed to the
required thickness determined by the structural design procedure. The material
and installation shall meet the requirements of the appropriate sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
      6.   Shoulders And Curbs And Gutters:
         a.   Shoulders On Residential Streets: Shoulders on residential
streets shall be Portland cement concrete shoulders in accordance with
appendices A and B of this chapter and the appropriate sections of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", except as modified
herein. Turf shoulders on residential streets consisting of two feet (2') wide
aggregate shoulders in lieu of the concrete shoulders only may be permitted as
approved by the village administrator. One of the following shoulder design
options, or a combination thereof, shall be utilized as determined by the
village engineer:
            (1)   Option 1: Portland cement concrete shoulders shall be
constructed at a minimum thickness of nine inches (9") and shall be nineteen
inches (19") in width. Combination concrete curb and gutter, type M-3.12 shall
be placed around all intersection radii. The curb shall be tapered to the
gutter (shoulder) in a minimum three foot (3') length, tapering down from the
return of the radius (point of curvature). Contraction joints shall be sawed
and sealed at uniform intervals not to exceed fifteen feet (15'). Expansion
joints shall be one inch (1") thick with two (2) no. 6 (3/4") smooth epoxy
coated bars with greased caps and shall be constructed at intervals not to
exceed sixty feet (60').
            (2)   Option 2: Combination concrete curb and gutter, type M-3.12
shall be constructed with a minimum gutter flag thickness of nine inches (9")
and shall be nineteen inches (19") in width. Contraction joints shall be sawed
and sealed at uniform intervals not to exceed fifteen feet (15'). Expansion
joints shall be one inch (1") thick with two (2) no. 6 (3/4") smooth epoxy
coated bars with greased caps and shall be constructed at intervals not to
exceed sixty feet (60'). Curbs shall be depressed to one and one-half inches
(11/2") at all driveways.
            (3)   Option 3: Turf shoulders shall be a minimum four feet (4') in
width. Seeding or sodding shall be of a salt tolerant lawn mixture. A four inch
(4") white edge line shall be placed continuously six inches (6") inside the
bituminous edge of pavement. Two foot (2') wide mailbox turnouts shall be
provided for all lots occupied by a building. Combination concrete curb and
gutter, type M-3.12 shall be placed around all intersection radii. The curb
shall be tapered to the gutter (shoulder) in a minimum three foot (3') length,
tapering down from the return of the radius (point of curvature).
         b.   Curbs And Gutters On Commercial And Industrial Streets: Curbs and
gutters on commercial and industrial streets shall be combination concrete curb
and gutter, type B-6.12 in accordance with appendices A and B of this chapter
and the appropriate sections of the "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", except as modified herein. Portland cement concrete
shoulders shall be constructed at a minimum thickness of nine inches (9") and
shall be nineteen inches (19") in width. Combination concrete curb and gutter,
type B-6.12 shall be constructed with a minimum gutter flag thickness of ten
inches (10") on commercial streets and twelve inches (12") on industrial
streets. Two (2) no. 4 (1/2 inch diameter) reinforcing bars shall be placed
continuously in the curb and gutter, and shall be at a height of three inches
(3") above the bottom of the concrete curb and gutter. Contraction joints shall
be sawed and sealed at uniform intervals not to exceed fifteen feet (15').
Expansion joints shall be one inch (1") thick with two (2) no. 6 (3/4") smooth
epoxy coated bars with greased caps and shall be constructed at intervals not
to exceed sixty feet (60'), unless specifically approved by the Board of
Trustees.
      7.   Signs: Signs bearing the names of the streets shall be erected at
all street intersections. Signs and signposts shall meet the minimum
requirements for similar signs and posts as shown and set forth in the latest
edition of the "Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways" as prepared and published by the Illinois Department of
Transportation of the State of Illinois. The signs shall have white letters on
a green background.
      8.   Trees: The following requirements for the planting of trees shall be
applicable to all subdivisions within the corporate limits of the Village:
         a.   Size: Trees having a trunk diameter measured at breast height of
not less than two and one-half inches (2.5") shall be planted along all streets
where trees do not exist. This requirement will be satisfied and it is
preferable if an equivalent number of trees of the same size are planted in a
naturalistic way in the front yards of the abutting lots. Replacement trees
required by title 11, chapter 1 of this Code shall be provided by the
subdivider in addition to the trees required in this section.
         b.   Locations: Spacing of trees shall be between twenty five feet
(25') and forty feet (40') (i.e., separation) depending on species selected,
along public streets and shall be located, when within the public right-of-way,
two feet (2') on center as measured from the right-of-way line, and when
located on private property, not more than seven feet (7') on center from the
right- of-way line.
         c.   Species: The only species of trees that shall be planted shall be
those listed as permitted replacement trees in section
11-1-5 of this Code, or those approved by the Village Administrator or his/her
designee.
         d.   Mix Of Trees: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
trees planted in a single subdivision or development shall be of one species.
         e.   Guarantee Required: Trees which do not survive eighteen (18)
months after planting shall be replaced at the subdivider's expense.
      9.   Native Plantings: The following requirements are for the planting of
native plants (shrubs, grasses, wetland plants and others) and shall be
applicable to all subdivisions within the corporate limits of the Village:
         a.   Location: Native plantings shall be incorporated into the
landscape planning and design of any new subdivision, except where the Village
Administrator, or his designee, determines in advance that such plants would
not be sustainable or are inappropriate.
         b.   Species: Species of shrubs, grasses, wetland plants and others
are listed in the "Native Planting Guide" on file with the Village and located
at http://www.csu.edu/CERC/NativePlantGuide-_Illinois_2004. (Ord. 2007-O-20,
10-2-2007; amd. Ord. 2014-O-24, 2-4-2014; Ord. 2017-O-21, 11-7-2017; Ord. 2023-
O-22, 9-5-2023)
9-5-4: TECHNICAL NONCOMPLIANCE BY CERTAIN PREVIOUSLY PLATTED LOTS OF RECORD:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, in the event a
plat of subdivision or a plat of resubdivision has previously been recorded
after having been reviewed and approved by the Corporate Authorities of this
Village, which review was intended to confirm, among other things, that all of
the lots in such subdivision or resubdivision complied with the minimum
applicable Village standards for both lot area and for minimum lot width, and
in the further event that it is discovered after recording of said plat that a
lot or lots in such subdivision or resubdivision is or are not in compliance
with one or both of such minimum Village lot standards, then in such case, any
technical deficiency(ies) relative to such a lot or lots in such subdivision or
resubdivision shall, for purposes of the application of title 8 of this Code
and this title, be waived and such lot or lots shall be considered conforming
and in compliance with said minimum Village standards as to lot width and lot
area as otherwise required by this Code. (Ord. 2017-O-21, 11-7-2017)
9-5-5: APPENDICES:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2239.gif]
Appendix A (Option 1)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2241.gif]
Appendix A (Option 2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2243.gif]
Appendix A (Option 3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2245.gif]
Appendix B (Option 1)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2247.gif]
Appendix B (Option 2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2249.gif]
Appendix B (Option 3)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2251.gif]
Appendix C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/942c374cd5a18f6605e64ede7af9a3cef32a6e35/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2253.gif]
Appendix D
 
(Ord. 2007-O-20, 10-2-2007; amd. Ord. 2017-O-21, 11-7-2017)
CHAPTER 6
PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Subdivider's Responsibility
9-6-2: Performance Guarantee
9-6-3: Inspections
9-6-4: Default, Failure To Complete Improvements
9-6-5: Maintenance Guarantee
9-6-6: Repairs By Village
9-6-1: SUBDIVIDER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
All required improvements shall be made by the subdivider at the subdivider's
expense without reimbursement of any kind or nature by or from the Village.
Nothing shall be construed to require the subdivider to file a performance
guarantee or deposit other security until the subdivider's final plat has been
approved by the Board of Trustees in all other respects and the subdivider has
been notified of such approval, provided, however, such performance guarantee
shall be filed with the Village prior to execution of the plat by any officials
of the Village. (Ord. 97-O-06, 3-18-1997)
9-6-2: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
To assure the satisfactory installation and completion of all required
improvements, a performance guarantee acceptable to the Village shall be
provided. The performance guarantee shall be either cash, cash escrow deposit
or a letter of credit. No final plat shall be recorded until a performance
guarantee meeting the following requirements has been deposited with the
Village:
   A.   Forms:
      1.   Cash: A cashier's check, certified check, bank draft, bank money
order or other instrument in a readily negotiable form acceptable to and
approved by the Village Treasurer and made payable to the Village.
      2.   Cash Escrow Deposit:
         a.   A cash escrow account in the amount required shall be established
with a financial institution which meets the approval of the Board of Trustees.
The account shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the
escrow agreement to be negotiated by the Board of Trustees and the owner,
developer and/or subdivider and approved by the Village Attorney. Such
agreement shall contain provisions for specific application of such funds,
partial contract payouts, contract retention percentages until completion, pro
rata reduction of deposit excess, final escrow settlement and other pertinent
administrative matters.
         b.   The financial institution shall disburse funds from time to time
for the purposes provided upon presentation of, and in accordance with, payout
orders issued by the owner's engineer and approved by the Village President.
Such disbursements shall not be subject to approval or disapproval by the owner
or financial institutions or their agents other than said owner's engineer;
however, for accounting purposes, the Village shall send to the owner a copy of
the approved engineer's estimate for payment at time of Village approval. Each
payout order shall be accompanied by all appropriate sworn statements,
affidavits and supporting waivers of lien in full compliance with the Illinois
Mechanics Lien Law 1 .
         c.   If the Village President notifies the financial institution, in
writing, that the balance of funds undisbursed under the escrow account is more
than sufficient to cover the cost of construction, fees and maintenance, and if
the financial institution concurs, the financial institution shall pay to the
owner any excess of funds not disbursed under said escrow account. Any notice
written by the Village President shall specify the reduced balance deemed to be
necessary and sufficient so that the amount of excess funds can be calculated.
      3.   Letter Of Credit:
         a.   The subdivider or owner may file an irrevocable letter of credit
from any financial institution authorized by law to issue such a letter and
acceptable to the Village President and in a form acceptable to the Village
Attorney.
         b.   Such letter of credit shall guarantee to the Village the
availability of the funds specified in the irrevocable letter of credit and
guarantee the availability of such funds specified from time to time and upon
the demand of the Village.
         c.   Such letter of credit shall be in an amount determined by the
Village Engineer to be sufficient to pay for the cost of construction of the
improvements and all engineering costs, including the engineering and
inspection fees of the Village.
         d.   Such letter of credit shall provide that the issuing financial
institution shall pay to the Village, or as the Village directs, such amounts
as may be required to complete the improvements according to the approved
specifications.
         e.   Such letter of credit may provide that its amount will be reduced
from time to time as payments for improvements approved by the Village Engineer
are made.
         f.   Such letter of credit shall be irrevocable for at least twenty
four (24) months and shall provide that if any balance remains at the
expiration of any time limit placed on it, said balance shall be deposited with
the Village in a cash escrow or a new letter of credit in the amount of the
unpaid balance shall be issued or a surety bond shall be provided.
         g.   Such letter of credit shall also provide that twenty five percent
(25%) of the principal amount shall be retained until the Village Engineer has
approved the required improvements and all public improvements have been
accepted by the Village.
         h.   Such letter of credit shall provide that it shall remain in force
even though there have been amendments or modifications to the matter for which
it was issued.
         i.   Such letter of credit shall, by its terms, not expire until
thirty five (35) calendar days after written notice of expiration has been sent
by the issuer to the Village.
         j.   Such letter of credit shall provide that in the event the issuer
fails to honor the Village's demand for payment under the terms of the letter
of credit, the issuer shall be responsible for the attorney fees and other
costs which may be incurred in enforcing collection.
   B.   Term And Extension:
      1.   The initial term of any performance guarantee shall be determined by
the Board of Trustees and shall be specified by the Board of Trustees in the
resolution approving the final plat. However, in no event shall such initial
term exceed thirty (30) months from the date of approval by the Board of
Trustees of the final plat.
      2.   The Board of Trustees, for good cause, may extend the term of the
performance guarantee for such additional period or periods where they find it
reasonable and appropriate and in the best interests of the public health,
safety and welfare.
   C.   Amount: The amount of the performance guarantee shall cover all
construction costs, the owner's engineering and platting costs and the
Village's engineering and inspection costs, and all maintenance costs until
acceptance by the Village. The guarantee shall be in the following minimum
amounts unless the owner can show that certain of the costs have already been
paid:
      1.   Construction Cost: One hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
construction costs approved by the Village Engineer.
      2.   Owner's Engineering And Platting Cost: At a cost verified by the
engineer and surveyor.
      3.   Village Engineering And Inspection Costs: Actual costs incurred.
   D.   Reductions: A performance guarantee may, in the sole discretion of the
Board of Trustees, be reduced by an amount equal to the improvements which have
been completed according to the plans, specifications and provisions; provided,
that the Village Engineer has certified, in writing, that such improvements
have been satisfactorily completed and a revised estimate of the cost of the
remainder of the improvements is included. In no event shall a performance
guarantee be reduced below twenty five percent (25%) of the original principal
amount. The balance of the performance guarantee shall not be released until
all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and the
subdivider's engineer or surveyor has certified to the Village Engineer,
through submission of a detailed as- built survey, plat of the subdivision,
indicating location, dimensions, materials and other information required in
these regulations or by the Village Engineer, that the layout of the line and
grade of all improvements is in accordance with the construction plans for the
subdivision and showing any other information required by the Village Engineer.
   E.   Insufficient Fund Balance: If, at any time before the construction of
all required improvements has been completed, the balance of funds remaining
undisbursed or unobligated under a performance guarantee is not sufficient, in
the sole judgment of the Village Engineer, to cover the cost including the
engineering and inspection fees of the Village or if by reason of any claim of
lien or any order, decree or writ of any court, or for any other reason, the
said undisbursed balance of funds shall be withheld, diminished or otherwise
unavailable for the purposes provided herein, the owner, by acceptance of the
approval of owner's final plat, agrees to cause the balance to be increased to
such amount as shall be required by the Village for such purposes, or shall
provide such other performance guarantee as may be required by the Village.
   F.   Performance Guarantee For Subdivisions Outside The Village Limits: A
performance guarantee will not be required by the Village for a subdivision or
that part of a subdivision which is located outside of the corporate limits of
the Village, if a performance guarantee has been filed with the county in which
said subdivision is located.
   G.   Time Limit: All performance guarantees shall provide that if required
improvements are not installed within two (2) years of approval of the final
plat, the Village may deem the subdivider in default and proceed accordingly;
provided, however, such time period may be extended by the Board of Trustees
where they find it reasonable and appropriate and in the best interests of the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 97-O-06, 3-18-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 770 ILCS 60/0.01 et seq.
9-6-3: INSPECTIONS:
If the Village Engineer, upon inspection, determines that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the Village's
construction standards and specifications, the subdivider shall be responsible
for correcting and completing the improvements. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-6-4: DEFAULT, FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS:
If the subdivider fails to perform the work on the improvements with sufficient
workers and equipment or with sufficient materials to ensure the completing of
the work within the specified time or shall perform such work that is rejected
as defective and unsuitable or should discontinue the prosecution of the work
or for any other cause shall not carry on the work in an approved manner, the
Board of Trustees shall give notice to the subdivider and specify what is to be
corrected or repaired. If, in the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees, the
subdivider does not undertake to correct or repair immediately that which is
set forth in said notice, the Board of Trustees may:
   A.   Advise the subdivider of failure, in writing, giving the subdivider
thirty (30) calendar days to cure such default. If the subdivider fails to cure
said default, the Village may, at its option, declare subdivider in default
and, upon written notification to the financial institution of such declaration
of default, all monies on deposit pursuant to the escrow agreement or available
pursuant to a letter of credit shall and may be disbursed by the financial
institution solely upon authorization of the Village President and Village
Treasurer; and/or
   B.   The Village Treasurer shall cash all financial institution funds and
deposit them in the appropriate Village account to complete the required
improvements. The Board of Trustees may then make such contract or contracts,
not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of the performance guarantee, as
necessary and appropriate or use any other reasonable methods to provide for
the completion of the work in an acceptable manner. The Board of Trustees are
authorized to take whatever other actions, including, but not limited to, the
institution of litigation, as it deems necessary or appropriate in order to
complete the improvements; and/or
   C.   Require the subdivider to submit a new performance guarantee in an
amount sufficient to cover any increased cost of constructing the required
improvements. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-6-5: MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Conditions Of Guarantee: The owner shall establish cash, a cash escrow
account or provide a letter of credit in the amount of five percent (5%) of the
final construction costs of the improvements to guarantee cost of replacement
of defective materials within the limits of the improvements. Said maintenance
guarantee shall remain in force for the two (2) year maintenance period and
shall be for use by the Village to effect such repairs deemed necessary for
public safety and which the owner has neglected to repair for a forty eight
(48) hour period after notification. Disbursements from the cash escrow account
or pursuant to the letter of credit shall be made solely upon the direction of
the Village and shall not be given subject to approval or disapproval by the
owner, financial institution or the financial institution issuing the letter of
credit or their agents.
   B.   Guarantees To Be Provided: Such maintenance guarantee as provided
above, the subdivider shall provide to the Village the following maintenance
guarantees in the form of cash, a cash escrow account or letter of credit:
      1.   Pavement: A maintenance guarantee shall be posted with the Village
Clerk or deposited with the Village Treasurer, as the case may be, for a period
of two (2) years following the acceptance by the Board of Trustees of pavement
construction to ensure the correction, repair or replacement of any defects or
failures (exclusive of normal wear and tear) which may occur or develop in the
pavement within this period of time. All defects which occur or develop within
such two (2) year period shall be promptly and properly corrected, repaired or
replaced by the subdivider and shall be restored to a condition satisfactory
to, and approved by, the Village Engineer. Such maintenance guarantee for the
pavement shall be in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the cost of the
base and pavement including curb, gutter and sidewalk, if any.
      2.   Other Improvements: A maintenance guarantee shall be posted with the
Village Clerk or deposited with the Village Treasurer, as the case may be, for
a period of two (2) years following the acceptance by the Board of Trustees of
any improvement other than pavement construction to ensure the correction,
replacement or repair of any defects or failures which occur or develop within
such period. All such defects or failures shall be promptly and properly
repaired, corrected or replaced by the subdivider to a condition satisfactory
to, and approved by, the Village Engineer. The term and amount of such
maintenance guarantee shall be determined by the Board of Trustees upon the
recommendation of the Village Engineer.
   C.   Defect Or Failure: If within any of the aforesaid periods any defect or
failure shall occur or develop, the Board of Trustees shall give notice to the
subdivider and shall specify the corrections, repairs and replacements to be
made. If, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the subdivider does not
promptly correct, repair or replace, or promptly proceed to correct, repair or
replace such defects or failures, or if the subdivider shall perform the work
but it is unsuitable, as determined by the Village Engineer, or for any other
cause whatsoever does carry on the correction, repair or replacement in an
approved manner, the Board of Trustees may take whatever actions it deems
advisable.
   D.   Maintenance Of Improvements: The subdivider shall be required to
maintain all improvements in the subdivision until all maintenance guarantees
of the subdivider have been released and the subdivider has performed all
maintenance agreements with the Village. Maintenance by the subdivider shall
not include removal of snow on streets and other public ways which the Village
shall undertake.
   E.   Termination Of Guarantee: At the termination of the time period
specified for the posting or depositing of any maintenance guarantee, the
guarantee, or any part remaining, shall be released to the subdivider.
   F.   Defects In Materials And Workmanship: The owner shall guarantee public
improvements against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of two
(2) years from the date of acceptance of public street improvements or approval
of private street improvements by the Village. The owner agrees to repair or
replace any of said public improvements which, during said two (2) year period
after acceptance, shall become damaged or deficient due to defective materials
or workmanship. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-6-6: REPAIRS BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Immediate And/Or Emergency Action: Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the Village authorities from curing, repairing or correcting any defect
or failure or from maintaining any improvement and charging all costs to the
subdivider or the subdivider's performance or maintenance guarantee bond if the
public health, safety and welfare requires that immediate and/or emergency
action be taken. If such repairs, replacements or other work exceeds the
subdivider's performance or maintenance guarantee, the subdivider shall be
liable for such excess and shall immediately remit the same to the Village
Treasurer.
   B.   Damage And Nuisance Guarantee: The guarantee of completion of public
improvements to be executed prior to recording of a final plat of subdivision,
shall also provide for repair of damages and abatement of nuisances with
respect to existing and subsequently installed landscaping, streets, sidewalks,
curbs and gutters, lighting parkways, water and sanitary sewerage facilities,
culverts, catch basins and/or storm sewers. The damage and nuisance guarantee
shall be in the total of five percent (5%) of the construction cost of new
public improvements and shall be provided upon commencement of land
developments. Upon completion of all required subdivision improvements, the
developer's engineer shall prepare a certified statement that the improvements
comply with the plans and specifications approved by the Village authorities
and shall forward same to the Village Clerk together with a request for
preliminary approval of improvements. The Village Engineer shall verify whether
the improvements comply with the approved plans and specifications and shall
prepare a statement of preliminary approval for the Village Board. Upon
acceptance of that statement of preliminary approval, the Village Board then
shall direct the Village Clerk to direct the financial institution or the
financial institution issuing the letter of credit to pay over the owner,
without further demand or notice, any balance of funds then remaining
undisbursed under said escrow agreement or letter of credit. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-
1989)
CHAPTER 7
CONSTRUCTION ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
9-7-1: Construction Control
9-7-2: Construction Contract Requirements
9-7-3: Inspection Of Improvements
9-7-4: Time Limit On Construction Of Public Improvements
9-7-5: Acceptance Of Public Improvements
9-7-1: CONSTRUCTION CONTROL:
   A.   Time Of Construction Improvements: All public and private improvements
required in the Subdivision Regulations shall be installed after approval of
the final plat. No work shall start prior to said approval.
   B.   Time Of Construction Of Buildings: No building permit shall be issued
for the construction of any building or structure unless a final plat has been
approved and recorded and unless all public improvements are provided to serve
the subdivision in the manner and in accordance with the standards set forth in
the Subdivision Regulations; provided however, that permits may be issued if
all grading operation and drainage improvements are completed and the first
layer of bituminous concrete wearing course has been placed on the road or
roads to be improved.
   C.   Use Of Existing Streets By Construction Contractors: Only those streets
designated by the Plan Commission during the approval of the final plat may be
used for access to the subdivision by all equipment and trucks engaged in the
construction of all improvements, utility services and buildings.
   D.   Sequence Of Construction: All underground utilities, water mains,
sanitary sewers or storm sewers installed in streets, alleys, service roads or
highways shall be installed prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service
connections to such underground utilities and sewers shall be extended to the
property line of each lot so as to prevent disturbing the surface improvements
in public ways when service connections are later made. Where underground
utilities are located in the parkway adjacent to the paved roadway, service
connections to properties across such roads shall only be made by drilling
under the pavement in such a way that the surfacing is not disturbed or
weakened.
   E.   Maintenance During Construction: The subdivider shall clean and
maintain all public ways, sewers and drains free from snow, mud, debris, trash
and other extraneous material prior to acceptance of the street by the Village
and at such other times during construction as the Village Building
Commissioner, Village Engineer or Enforcing Officer may deem necessary.
   F.   Construction Noise: The subdivider shall take every precaution to
assure that undue noise from construction operations is kept at a minimum. To
assure that contractors are aware of this requirement, the following
construction noise standards shall be made a part of all contracts entered into
for construction of proposed improvements:
      1.   Any engine or engine-driven equipment used for hauling or
construction activities shall be equipped with an adequate muffler in constant
operation and properly maintained to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
Furthermore, any machine or device or part which is subject to Federal or State
standards shall conform to those standards.
      2.   All construction operations shall be confined to weekdays, Saturdays
and to available daylight hours on those days during the time period between
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. No work shall take
place on Sundays. Exceptions to the above time restrictions shall be allowed
for maintenance operations, for maintenance and operation of public safety and
traffic-control devices or for construction of any emergency nature.
      3.   To interpret this Section, selected terms are defined as follows:
         a.   Adequate Muffler: One which is equal to, or quieter than, the
original muffler provided with the engine. If an engine was originally provided
without a muffler, a muffler complying with the recommendations of the engine
manufacturer shall be installed. Mufflers recommended by other than the engine
manufacturer shall not be used.
         b.   In Constant Operation: The exhaust system shall not have a
cutout, bypass or similar device as part of the operational system.
         c.   Properly Maintained: The individual components of the engine
exhaust system shall be maintained at all times. Such times as leaks, holes or
improper operation shall be remedied by sealing, patching or replacing as
necessary to ensure proper operation.
      4.   Requests to modify or deviate from these requirements shall be
submitted, in writing, by the contractor and must be approved, in writing, by
the village engineer.
   G.   Liability During Construction: During the construction of the
improvements and until the village board has accepted said improvements, the
village shall not be responsible for any liability or property damage insurance
to cover any liability incurred during the course of construction. (Ord. 89-O-
6, 2-7-1989)
9-7-2: CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Qualifications Of Contractors And Subcontractors: The subdivider shall
submit a list of all contractors and subcontractors who are to participate in
the construction of the improvements to the village clerk. The list shall
include names, addresses, telephone numbers and names of persons in charge. All
such contractors and subcontractors shall have a current, valid contractor's
license issued by the village.
   B.   Developer/Subdivider Insurance Requirements: During the entire period
of the construction and installation of the required subdivision improvements,
all contractors of the subdivider or developer shall keep in effect and
maintain with companies that are fully licensed or authorized in the state of
Illinois and have an A.M. Best Company rating of at least A- (excellent) and a
financial size category of IX or greater, public liability and property damage
insurance protecting the village, the village engineer, and their respective
officers, employees, and agents, and the subdivider/developer, and such
contractor against loss from liability for damages on account of injury or
death suffered by any person or persons by reason of the performance of the
work. In addition, the policy shall provide for legal defense against any and
all claims on the policy. In the event the village and the other required
additional insureds cannot be covered by endorsement on the insurance policies
of all contractors, separate policies covering the village and the other
required additional insureds shall be provided. The construction and
installation of the required subdivision improvements shall not be permitted or
initiated until certificates of insurance showing the following coverage, as
required by these regulations and other requirements of law, have been filed
with the village, along with the endorsements in favor of additional named
insureds as hereinafter provided. Each certificate shall provide that coverage
shall not be terminated or reduced without thirty (30) days' advance written
notice to the village. The required certificates of insurance shall include as
additional named insureds, the village, the village engineer, and their
respective officers, employees, and agents. Minimum limits of insurance
coverage shall be as follows:
      1.   Comprehensive General Liability Insurance: Any contractor of the
subdivider or developer shall provide and maintain comprehensive general
liability insurance in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence and in the aggregate for bodily injury, sickness, disease, or death
of any person, which will protect the village, the village engineer, and their
respective officers, employees, and agents from claims which may arise out of
or result from the performance of work by anyone directly or indirectly
employed by the contractor, or by anyone for whose acts the contractor may be
liable.
      2.   Workers' Compensation And Employers' Liability: Any contractor of
the subdivider or developer shall provide and maintain workers' compensation
coverage in accordance with the requirements of law, and in an amount not less
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
      3.   Automobile Liability: Any contractor of the subdivider or developer
shall provide and maintain bodily injury and property damage coverage (combined
single limit) in accordance with the requirements of law, and in an amount not
less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). This coverage shall include
hired and nonowned automobiles.
      4.   Umbrella Liability: Any contractor of the subdivider or developer
shall provide and maintain umbrella liability coverage in an amount not less
than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00). This coverage shall include,
without limitation, excess coverage for the general liability, workers'
compensation, and automobile liability policies.
      5.   Property Insurance: Coverage shall be provided and maintained in the
amount of the estimated cost of improvements on a placement cost basis. (Ord.
2006-O-07, 4-4-2006)
9-7-3: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required: All required land improvements to be installed under the
provisions of the subdivision regulations shall be inspected at the
subdivider's expense. The subdivider's licensed engineer, as agent for the
subdivider shall provide an inspector on the job during the process of
construction. When the work has been completed, the subdivider's engineer shall
certify that the improvements comply in all respects with the approved plans
and specifications and with the requirements of the subdivision regulations.
All work shall be, at all times, subject to inspection by the village enforcing
officer, the village engineer, other village officials and their
representatives.
   B.   Notification: Before starting the construction of any improvements, the
subdivider shall ascertain from the village engineer what inspections are
required and the amount of notification desired in each case. In no event shall
notice to the village engineer be less than forty eight (48) hours prior to a
desired inspection.
   C.   Subdivider's Responsibility: Regardless of contracts, agreements or
inspections performed, final responsibility for the installation of all
improvements in accordance with the applicable standards rests with the
subdivider. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-7-4: TIME LIMIT ON CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
All improvements required under the provisions of this title shall be completed
within two (2) years of approval of a plat or the subdivider shall be
considered in default. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-7-5: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Acceptance By Adoption Of Resolution: If any plat of subdivision
contains public streets or easements which are dedicated, whether located
within the corporate limits of the village or in part outside or contains
existing streets located outside of the village corporate limits, approval of
the final plat by the board of trustees, approval of payouts under the terms of
a guarantee of improvement or subsequent annexation of property to the village
shall not constitute an acceptance by the village of such streets or easement,
nor of the public improvements constructed or installed, irrespective of any
act by any officer, agent or employee of the village with respect to such
streets and improvements. The acceptance of all public improvements shall be
made only by the adoption of a resolution by the board of trustees after there
has been filed with the village a certification by the village engineer stating
that all, or individual, public improvements required to be constructed or
installed have been fully, or individually, completed and that the construction
or installation has been approved.
   B.   Record Plans For Improvements: After completion of all public
improvements and prior to final acceptance of said improvements, the subdivider
shall make or cause to be made record plans showing the actual location of all
improvements. The plan shall be in black ink on tracing cloth or materials of
equal permanence and durability and shall bear the seal and signature of the
subdivider's engineer. The plans consisting of the original drawings and three
(3) sets of blue line or back line prints shall be submitted to the village for
permanent record. Presentation of the plans to the village shall be a condition
of final acceptance to the subdivision improvements.
   C.   Acceptance Of Street Or Roadway: No street or roadway shall be accepted
by the village until at least seventy five percent (75%) of all lots in the
subdivision in which said street is located shall have been fully improved with
buildings authorized and a certificate of occupancy has been issued. The
surface course of a street, thoroughfare, alley or parking area shall be
collectively considered as a single or individual improvement and such
construction shall constitute release of the application portion of the
performance surety. No street or roadway shall be accepted by the village
during the months of November, December, January, February, March and April.
(Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
CHAPTER 8
AMENDMENTS, VARIATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Amendments
9-8-2: Variations
9-8-3: Penalties
9-8-4: Other Remedies
9-8-1: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Public Hearings: From time to time, the Plan Commission shall initiate
and conduct public hearings to consider changes or additions to the provisions
and regulations for subdivision control that it deems necessary or advisable.
   B.   Recommendation Of Plan Commission; Adoption: The Plan Commission shall
recommend in writing to the Board of Trustees, changes or additions to the
subdivision regulations after holding a public hearing. Such changes or
additions shall become effective after their adoption by the Board of Trustees
by the passage of an amendment to the Subdivision Regulations of the Village.
(Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-8-2: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Requirements: When the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary
hardships may result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may
recommend variations or exceptions to the regulations; provided, that such
variations or exceptions shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purposes of the Subdivision Regulations. The Plan Commission shall not
recommend variations or exceptions to the regulations unless it reviews
evidence and makes findings based upon the evidence presented by each specific
case that all of the following provisions have been carefully considered and
satisfied:
      1.   Extraordinary Hardship: An extraordinary hardship to the owner would
result because of the physical surroundings, shape or topographical conditions
of the specific property if the strict letter of the regulations were carried
out. Mere inconvenience is not sufficient grounds for granting a variation or
exception.
      2.   Unique: The conditions upon which the request for a variation is
based are unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property.
      3.   Purpose Not Monetary: The purpose of the variation is not based
exclusively or primarily upon a desire to make more money from the property.
      4.   Neighboring Property: The granting of the variation will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or injurious to other
property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      5.   Act Of Applicant Subsequent To Enactment: The special circumstances
or conditions have not resulted from any act of the applicant subsequent to the
effective dates of the Ordinances codified in these Subdivision Regulations.
      6.   Minimum Adjustment: The variation granted is the minimum adjustment
necessary for the reasonable use of the land.
      7.   Deprivation Of Beneficial Use: The circumstances or conditions are
such that the strict application of the provisions of these Subdivision
Regulations would deprive the applicant of any reasonable use of the land. Mere
loss in value shall not justify a variation; there must be deprivation of
beneficial use of land.
   B.   Report Of Plan Commission: The Plan Commission shall submit a report to
the Board of Trustees regarding the basis and justification for variations
granted.
   C.   Recommendation Of Plan Commission: In accordance with the provisions
and standards of this Section, the Plan Commission shall recommend and the
Board of Trustees shall either grant, grant subject to conditions or deny
requests for variations from strict compliance with the provisions of these
regulations. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
9-8-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Petty Offense; Fine: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of these subdivision
regulations or of failing to comply with any of the requirements hereof, or who
shall violate a permit, any approval or condition of approval or any directive
of the plan commission, of the board of trustees or of the enforcing officer
issued under the provisions of these subdivision regulations shall be guilty of
a petty offense, punishable by fine(s) and other penalties for each offense as
specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of these subdivision
regulations or of failing to comply with any requirement thereof, or of
violating any permit, any approval or any directive of the plan commission, of
the board of trustees or of the enforcing officer issued under the provisions
of these subdivision regulations shall, in addition to the fine(s) and other
penalties provided, be obligated to reimburse the village for its attorney fees
to the extent permitted by law, court costs, court reporter costs, expert
witness fees and all other out of pocket costs incurred by the village in the
prosecution of the said violation or violations.
   C.   Joint And Several Liability: The owner of record, beneficiaries,
general agent and/or contractor for the building, premises and/or property
where such violation has been committed or shall exist, and the lessee or
tenant of an entire building, premises or property, or any part thereof and any
other person who assists in such violation shall all be jointly and severally
liable for any such violation.
   D.   Injunction: The village may make application to the circuit court for
an injunction requiring conformance with these subdivision regulations or make
such other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with these
subdivision regulations. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
9-8-4: OTHER REMEDIES:
In addition to other remedies available to the village, the village may decline
to issue any building permit or other permit required by this code if any
violation of these subdivision regulations within a particular subdivision or
on a particular property remains uncured. (Ord. 89-O-6, 2-7-1989)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Stormwater Management Regulations; Lake County Watershed Development
Ordinance Adopted
10-1-2: Preamble
10-1-3: Submittal And Certification
10-1-4: Schedule Of Fees
10-1-5: Enforcement Officer
10-1-6: Conflict
10-1-1: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS; LAKE COUNTY WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   A.   The Lake County watershed development ordinance (hereinafter referred
to as the "watershed development ordinance" or as the "LCWDO"), as most
recently amended by the county of Lake on October 13, 2020, is hereby adopted
by reference as if fully set out herein as applicable to and within the village
of Lake Barrington, with the exception of section 1201, "Fines" (which section
1201 is not adopted), and is in full force and effect within the village of
Lake Barrington.
   B.   Such ordinance is found in its own compilation on file in the village
clerk's office, and three (3) copies of said ordinance have been on file in the
village clerk's office for a period of not less than thirty (30) days prior to
the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 2015-O-17, 12-1-2015; Ord. 2020-O-20, 12-1-2020)
10-1-2: PREAMBLE:
The president and board of trustees of the village hereby find the facts as
stated in article I of the LCWDO to be true and correct and said findings are
hereby made a part of this chapter and part of this code. (Ord. 2001-O-22, 9-4-
2001)
10-1-3: SUBMITTAL AND CERTIFICATION:
The village president is authorized and directed to execute a petition for
certification, including a petition for isolated wetland certification, to the
Lake County stormwater management commission; said petition for the Lake County
stormwater management commission certification and the ordinance codified
herein shall be submitted to the Lake County stormwater management commission
for approval and after the Lake County stormwater management commission
approves the ordinance codified herein and the attachments thereto, the village
shall then be considered a certified community for all purposes, including, but
not limited to, for isolated wetlands. After such certification by the
stormwater management commission, the village shall have the authority to issue
permits as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2001-O-22, 9-4-2001)
10-1-4: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
Pursuant to paragraph A(5) of article IV of the LCWDO, the following schedule
of fees is hereby adopted and imposed in accordance with the provisions of the
LCWDO, and such fees shall be payable as an addition to, and not in lieu of,
all other amounts payable under the applicable ordinances of the village:
   A.   Minimum Administrative Fee: Any application, petition or request for
any permit, approval, appeal, variation, and/or review required by the
provisions of the LCWDO, or any combination of any of the foregoing, when filed
or submitted, must be accompanied by a nonrefundable minimum administrative fee
as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code plus such additional fee as is sufficient to reimburse the
village for the estimated time spent by various village employees in connection
with each such permit, approval, and/or review, including inspections. The
rates charged for such employee time shall be an amount equal to two (2) times
the hourly rate then in effect in order to reimburse the village for all of its
costs incurred for each such employee's salary and benefits that the village
provides.
   B.   Professionals, Experts And/Or Consultants: The village may, at its
discretion, retain such professionals, experts, and/or consultants as it deems
necessary for a full and complete review and consideration of any such
application, petition or request. Such professionals, experts and/or
consultants may include, but shall not be limited to, engineers, land planners,
environmentalists, conservationists, arborists, architects, attorneys,
landscape architects, surveyors, soil experts, and such other professionals,
experts or consultants as the village deems necessary and the cost of such
services shall be borne by the applicant or petitioner as hereinafter provided.
The applicant or petitioner, as the case may be, shall be obligated to
reimburse the village for all expenses incurred by the village relative to
applicant's or petitioner's respective application, petition, or request,
including, but not limited to, fees for the services of any and all of the
foregoing professionals, experts and consultants relative to the respective
petition and/or application as well as charges for the publication of legal
notices, recording secretaries and/or court reporters.
   C.   Initial Deposit: Any such application, petition or request made
pursuant to the provisions of the LCWDO, when filed or submitted, shall be
accompanied by a deposit into a noninterest bearing, nonsegregated account held
by the village treasurer, to be used by the village for the payment of all
expenses incurred by the village, the minimum initial deposit of which shall be
as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
   D.   Additional Deposit: Where it appears that such application, petition or
request will involve additional expenditures by the village, the applicant or
petitioner shall be required to deposit with the village treasurer such
additional amounts reasonably necessary to pay the estimated amount of such
expenses and charges. Such deposits shall be made or increased from time to
time as reasonably required by the village but any such additional deposit
shall be made not less than twenty four (24) hours before the commencement of
the next hearing or meeting by the village on the matter or thirty (30) days
from the date on which any written request by the village for such additional
deposit is mailed to the petitioner or applicant, whichever is sooner. Any
portion of such deposit not expended by the village shall be refunded to the
applicant or petitioner at such time as no further expenditures or charges by
the village are reasonably anticipated.
   E.   Use Of Funds: The funds deposited in such account shall be used by the
village for the payment of such expenses in the event that the applicant or
petitioner fails to make payment to the village for such reimbursement at least
twenty four (24) hours before the commencement of the next scheduled hearing or
meeting of the village on such application, petition or request, or thirty (30)
days from the date on which billing is mailed to the applicant or petitioner,
whichever is sooner. The obligation of the applicant or petitioner to reimburse
the village shall not be limited by the amount of deposit from time to time.
Any portion of such deposit not expended by the village shall be refunded to
the applicant or petitioner at such time as no further expenditures or charges
by the village are reasonably anticipated.
   F.   Remedies Upon Noncompliance: If any applicant or petitioner fails to
comply with any of the foregoing provisions, the village, in addition to such
other remedies as provided by law or the provisions of this chapter and the
other applicable ordinances of this village and/or any officer, employee,
board, committee or commission thereof may refuse:
      1.   To process applications, petitions or requests for permits,
approval, appeal or variations as otherwise required by the LCWDO or other
applicable ordinances of the village;
      2.   To make inspections as otherwise required by the LCWDO or other
applicable ordinances of the village;
      3.   To issue any applicable permits or approvals as otherwise required
by the LCWDO or other applicable ordinances of the village; and/or
      4.   To commence or conduct further hearings or meetings on the matter or
matters proposed by the applicant or petitioner as otherwise required by the
LCWDO or other applicable ordinances of the village if the applicant or
petitioner has failed to comply with this section at least twenty four (24)
hours prior to the scheduled hearing or meeting.
   G.   Additional Remedies: In addition to the foregoing remedies, and not by
way of limitation, the village may bring any action at law to collect any
amounts due under any of the foregoing provisions.
   H.   Rereview: If rereview is required due to major redesign of a project,
the payment of the minimum administrative fee as specified above shall again be
required. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
10-1-5: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The enforcement officer for the purposes of this chapter shall be that village
officer, employee or such independent consulting engineering firm as designated
by the village president from time to time. (Ord. 94-O-22, 9-6-1994)
10-1-6: CONFLICT:
Should a conflict exist between this chapter and any other ordinance of the
village, then the more restrictive provisions of any applicable ordinance shall
prevail and apply. (Ord. 94-O-22, 9-6-1994)
TITLE 11
TREES AND PLANTS
CHAPTER 1
PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES
SECTION:
11-1-1: Intent And Purpose; Scope
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Tree Removal Permits And Preservation Plans
11-1-4: Protection Of Existing Trees
11-1-5: Removal Of Protected Trees
11-1-6: Tree Survival/Guarantee
11-1-7: Permits Required
11-1-8: Public Nuisances
11-1-9: Permits To Plant Or Remove Trees Or Shrubs In Public Places
11-1-10: Damaging Trees Or Shrubs In Public Places
11-1-11: Advertisements, Notices On Trees Or Shrubs
11-1-12: Plants Overhanging Public Places; Roots Impeding Drainage
11-1-13: Poles, Wires To Be Kept Away From Trees And Shrubs
11-1-14: Enforcement; Appeals
11-1-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE; SCOPE:
This chapter establishes requirements for the protection and preservation of
existing trees throughout the Village. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
dbh: "Diameter at breast height" which shall be the diameter of the trunk size
as measured at fifty four inches (54") above the established ground level, or
for replacement trees, fifty four inches (54") above the top of the root ball.
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY: For the purposes of this title, the enforcement
authority shall be the Village Administrator, or his or her designee.
EXEMPT TREE: A tree which has been determined by the Village Administrator, or
his or her designee, or otherwise by the Village to be one of the exempt
species of trees listed in subsection 11-1-4C3 of this chapter, or which has
been determined by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, to be
dead, diseased but not reasonably treatable, materially damaged, or
structurally unsound or unsafe.
PROTECTED HERITAGE TREE: Any protected tree with a trunk size of twenty inches
(20") or larger dbh, other than an exempt tree as listed in subsection 11-1-4C3
of this chapter.
PROTECTED PRIVATE TREES: Any tree located on private property within the
Village with a trunk size greater than or equal to four inches (4") dbh, other
than an exempt tree as listed in subsection 11-1-4C3 of this chapter.
PROTECTED PUBLIC TREES: Any tree located on public rights-of-way and/or on
public property within the Village with a trunk size greater than or equal to
four inches (4") dbh, other than an exempt tree as listed in subsection 11-1-
4C3 of this chapter.
PROTECTED TREES: Shall be defined as and include protected public trees,
protected private trees, and protected heritage trees, which are all specially
protected by the provisions of this chapter.
REGULATED ACTIVITY: Any activity that anticipates or involves the actual or
reasonably likely damage or removal of one or more protected trees, including,
but not limited to, the subdivision of property, public or private new
construction or development, deforestation, landscaping, enlargements or
expansion of any structure, building or parking areas. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-
2018)
11-1-3: TREE REMOVAL PERMITS AND PRESERVATION PLANS:
   A.   Tree Removal: Except as specifically authorized in accordance with
sections
11-1-7 and
11-1-8 of this chapter, no protected tree shall be removed or shall be
otherwise affected by regulated activity prior to receiving prior written
approval by the applicable approving authority, and a tree removal permit
issued by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee. No exempt tree
shall be removed or shall be otherwise affected by regulated activity without
the prior written approval of the Village Administrator, or his or her
designee.
   B.   Approval Authority:
      1.   Approving Authority; When Public Hearing Required: A tree survey and
tree preservation plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission or, to the
Zoning Board of Appeals, where it is the hearing body, and to the Village Board
for review and approval by anyone requesting preliminary or final plat approval
or any zoning relief. The Village Board, as the applicable approving authority,
shall review and approve tree preservation plans for applicants requesting
preliminary and/or final plat approval or any zoning relief, after receiving a
recommendation from the Plan Commission or from the Zoning Board of Appeals, as
appropriate to the circumstances. The approval of a tree survey and tree
preservation plan shall only be effective for twenty four (24) months from the
date of approval, and all tree removal, replacement and/or relocation
authorized shall be completed during that period, unless such a survey and plan
are updated and the approval thereof is renewed, in which event said tree
survey, tree preservation plan, and the approval thereof shall be effective for
an additional twelve (12) months.
      2.   Approving Authority; When Public Hearing Not Required: The Village
Administrator, or his or her designee, as the applicable approving authority,
shall review and approve the tree survey, tree preservation plans, and tree
removal plans for all applicants not required to appear before the Plan
Commission, ZBA, or Village Board.
   C.   Compliance With Chapter: No letter of credit or other performance
guarantee shall be released for any subdivision, no performance bond shall be
released for any building or site permit, and no occupancy permit shall be
granted relative to any building permit, unless the terms and conditions of
this chapter relative to tree preservation and replacement have been fully
complied with. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-4: PROTECTION OF EXISTING TREES:
   A.   Tree Survey: A tree survey shall be submitted to the applicable
approving authority for review and approval, by anyone requesting a tree
removal permit, a building or site development permit, and/or preliminary and/
or final subdivision approval. The tree survey shall indicate the location,
size and species (both scientific and common name), relative health, of all
trees located on the parcel with a dbh of four inches (4") or greater. The tree
location and size information which is part of a tree survey shall be based
upon a plat of survey prepared by a land surveyor. The balance of the
information provided by any tree survey and any tree preservation plan and any
amendment(s) thereto shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect as
defined by 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 315/1 et seq., or by an arborist as
defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-42-13, or by persons with similar
expertise in forestry, woodlands management, and/or horticulture whose
qualifications have been approved in advance by the applicable approving
authority.
   B.   Integration Of Existing Trees Into Site And Landscape Plans: Subject to
the determination of the applicable approving authority, or his or her or its
designee, a reasonable effort shall be made to retain existing protected trees
shown on the tree survey through the integration of those trees into the site
and landscaping plan for a proposed site or development. Where a reasonable
integration of protected trees into the site or development plan is not
possible, and any protected trees are, therefore, approved for removal, the
applicant shall be required to mitigate the removal of all such protected trees
based upon the exchange rate set forth in section
11-1-5 of this chapter, and further provided that removal of protected trees
designated for preservation shall be allowed only pursuant to the provisions of
section
11-1-5 of this chapter. In the event that a site development plan or
landscaping plan is not required by a landowner who desires to remove protected
trees, a tree survey and tree preservation plan in compliance with this chapter
shall still be required.
   C.   Tree Preservation Plan: A tree preservation plan indicating the
location and species of those protected trees to be preserved and the methods
which are to be used to preserve such trees shall be submitted to the
applicable approving authority. This tree preservation plan shall specify the
following:
      1.   Preservation Techniques:
         a.   Grading And Construction Equipment: All grading and construction
equipment shall be forbidden from encroaching upon the protected tree's drip
line.
         b.   Material Detrimental To Trees: Crushed limestone and other
materials detrimental to protected trees shall not be dumped within the drip
line of any tree nor at any higher location where drainage toward the protected
tree could conceivably affect the health of the protected tree.
         c.   Installation Of Snow Fencing: Snow fencing shall be installed
during construction at the periphery of the protected tree's drip line. In
areas where a protected tree is in the construction zone and fencing the drip
line is not possible, two inch by six inch by eight foot (2" x 6" x 8') long
boards banded or wired around each trunk shall be provided as protection to
adequately prevent scarring.
         d.   During Construction: If protected trees have their roots exposed,
the roots shall be pruned. If exposed roots are greater than two inches (2") in
diameter, the tree crown is to be pruned to compensate for the root loss. Also
the protected tree shall be watered and fertilized.
      2.   Preservation Methodology: The methods which are to be used to
preserve those protected trees shall be clearly specified on the tree
preservation plan. These shall, at a minimum, include the preservation
techniques listed above, although alternative methods may be considered. If, in
the opinion of the applicable approving authority or his or her or its
designee, the necessary precautions as specified in the tree preservation plan
for the development were not undertaken before or during construction to ensure
the preservation of those protected trees, any building or site development
permit for the property in question shall not be issued, or, if previously
issued, may be suspended or revoked until such time as these precautions have
been complied with.
      3.   Exempt Trees: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to
the contrary, the following species of trees shall not be required to be
preserved or protected as part of any tree preservation plan:
Ash, blue (Fraxinus quadrangulara)
Ash, green (Fraxinus pennsylvanica)
Ash, white (Fraxinus americana)
Buckthorn, common (Rhaminus cathartica)
Buckthorn, glossy (Rhaminus frangula)
Cherry, choke (Prunus virginiana)
Maple, box elder (Acer negundo)
Maple, Norway (Acer platanoides)
Maple, silver (Acer saccharinum)
Pine, Austrian (Pinus nigra)
Poplar, cottonwood (Populus deltoides)
Poplar, Lombardy (Populus nigra "italica")
Poplar, white or silver (Populus alba)
As specified in subsection 11-1-8C of this chapter, the written approval of the
Village Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be required for the
removal of any of the species of trees specified in this subsection C3 in order
to confirm that said tree is one of the exempt species as listed above or is
otherwise an exempt tree. After such a written determination has been made by
the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, such trees shall, therefore,
be considered "exempt trees" for the purposes of this chapter. Until a tree has
been determined by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, to be an
"exempt tree", it shall be presumed to be a protected tree.
      4.   Applicable Trees: The tree preservation plan shall be required to
and shall specify such reasonable and necessary precautions to preserve and
protect all protected trees.
      5.   Landscape Architect Or Arborist Review: The Village, through the
applicable approving authority, shall have the right, but not the obligation,
to retain, at the applicant's expense, a landscape architect or arborist who
shall, in that event, review the applicant's proposed tree preservation plan
and provide recommendations to the applicable approving authority pursuant to
this chapter.
      6.   Proposed Location: Unless otherwise provided as part of a
landscaping plan, the tree preservation plan shall also show the proposed
location of all required replacement trees.
      7.   Other Options: Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter
to the contrary, no tree survey or tree preservation plan shall be required for
a tree removal permit if the Village Administrator, or his or her designee,
determines that such tree survey and tree preservation plan for such a tree
removal permit can both be documented by other means, such as photographs and/
or a written report prepared by a qualified arborist.
      8.   Annual Compliance Review: Notwithstanding the other provisions of
this chapter to the contrary, compliance with the tree removal permit and tree
replacement provisions of this chapter by a community association and/or
homeowners' association (collectively, "said association") on the common
property within a planned unit development may, at the request of the Board of
Directors of said association and with the approval of the Village Board of
Trustees, be evaluated and approved or disapproved by the Village Administrator
not less than annually on the basis of the budgeted and actual expenditures of
said association for tree replacement in comparison to the number of nonexempt
trees removed from the common property of said association during a comparable
period. If approved by the Village's Board of Trustees, such annual compliance
review and approval in lieu of the tree removal permit and tree replacement
provisions of this chapter shall be terminated, when and if so directed by the
Village's Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-5: REMOVAL OF PROTECTED TREES:
If a protected tree is removed for any reason or is seriously damaged,
destroyed or razed during construction or other regulated activities, such
trees shall be replaced with new trees in accordance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Tree Replacement Schedule:
Size Of Existing Trees dbh Number Of Replacement Trees
Size Of Existing Trees dbh Number Of Replacement Trees
Protected heritage trees:   
 30" or greater           No removal shall be permitted
 26" - 29"                15
 20" - 25"                12
Other protected trees:      
 13" - 19"                5
 8" - 12"                 4
 4" - 7"                  3
 
In interpreting the above exchange rate, in the event of a fraction of an inch,
if a fraction is equal to one-half inch (1/2") or greater, the higher full
number shall be used.
   B.   Minimum Size Of Replacement Trees: All replacement trees shall have a
minimum dbh of two inches (2"), upon installation.
   C.   Species Of Replacement Trees: The following are the permitted species
of replacement trees:
Aspen, quaking (Populus tremuloides)
Beech, American (Fagus grandifolia)
Birch, Renaissance Oasis (Betula papyrifera)
Birch, river (Betula nigra) (multi-stem, not less than 10 feet in height)
Buckeye, Ohio (Aesculus glabra)
Catalpa (Catalpa speciosa)
Cedar, white (Thuja occidentalis)
Coffeetree, Kentucky (Gymnocladus dioica)
Crab, prairie (Malus ioensis)
Cyprus, bald (Taxodium distichum)
Dogwood, pagoda (Cornus alternifolia)
Elm, American (Ulmus americana)
Fir, douglas (Pseudotsuga menziesii)
Franklin tree (Franklinea alatmaha)
Hackberry (Celtis occidentalis)
Hawthorn, cockspur (Crataegus crusgalli)
Hickory, bitternut (Carya cordiformis)
Hickory, shagbark (Carya ovata)
Hickory, sweet pignut (Carya glabra)
Hornbeam, American (Carpinus caroliniana)
Ironwood (Ostrya virginiana)
Larch, American (Larix larcina)
Linden, American (Tilia americana)
London Plane Tree (Platanus acerifolia)
Magnolia, cucumbertree (Magnolia acuminata)
Magnolia, sweet bay (Magnolia virginiana)
Maple, red or swamp (Acer rubrum)
Maple, sugar (Acer saccharum)
Mulberry, red (Morus rubra)
Oak, bur (Quercus macrocarpa)
Oak, chinquapin (Quercus muehlenbergii)
Oak, pin (Quercus palustris)
Oak, red (Quercus rubra)
Oak, shingle (Quercus imbracaria)
Oak, swamp white (Quercus bicolor)
Oak, white (Quercus alba)
Pagodatree, Japanese (Sophora japonica)
Paw paw (Asimina triloba)
Pine, white (Pinus strobus) (not less than 10 feet in height)
Redbud (Cercis canadensis)
Serviceberry (Amelanchier arborea) (multi-stem, not less than 10 feet in
height)
Serviceberry, Allegheny (Amelanchier laevis) (multi-stem, not less than 10 feet
in height)
Sourgum (black tupelo) (Nyssa sylvatica)
Spruce, Black Hills (Picea glauca)
Tuliptree (Liriodendron tulipifera)
Walnut, black (Juglans nigra)
Yellowwood (Cladrastis Kentuckea)
Other species shall require the specific written concurrence of the approval
authority.
   D.   Amended Tree Preservation Plan: Removal of, or other regulated activity
otherwise adversely affecting trees designated for preservation by a tree
preservation plan shall be allowed only by amending such plan and with the
approval of the applicable approval authority. The amended tree preservation
plan shall indicate the location, species and size of all replacement trees
consistent with the requirements for a tree preservation plan as set forth in
this chapter.
   E.   In The Field Adjustments: In the field adjustments to trees designated
for preservation on the tree preservation plan may be necessary during the
course of construction. In such instances, the developer or property owner
shall not remove, or otherwise adversely affect, any trees designated for
preservation prior to site inspection and/or consultation with the Village
Administrator, or his or her designee, and with a specific written tree removal
permit for such trees. If in the opinion of the Village Administrator, or his
or her designee, that any tree designated for preservation substantially
impedes the development, in the field adjustments may be approved by the
Village Administrator, or his or her designee, and a tree removal permit may be
issued for such trees without the need for resubmission of an amended tree
preservation plan, but such removal shall be and remain subject to the other
provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Fee In Lieu: Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the site in
question cannot accommodate all of the required replacement trees with the
prior written approval of the Village Administrator, a fee in lieu of such
replacement trees shall be paid to the Village based upon an estimated cost for
each replacement tree and planting thereof as approved by the Village
Administrator, or his or her designee, which shall be as specified from time to
time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. Such fees paid in lieu of replacement trees shall be used
only for providing of trees on Village property, including, but not limited to,
Village rights-of-way, and the care and maintenance thereof. (Ord. 2018-O-18,
9-4-2018)
11-1-6: TREE SURVIVAL/GUARANTEE:
The applicant for such tree preservation plan shall be obligated to replace any
relocated or replacement tree for up to eighteen (18) months after planting. In
the event a relocated or replacement tree dies or is in declining condition,
any such tree shall be replaced in accordance with the tree replacement
schedule as set forth in subsection 11-1-5A of this chapter. All trees as
required by the subdivision regulations of the Village, and all replacement
trees as required by this chapter, shall be in healthy condition, as approved
by the Village Administrator or his or her designee at the time of final
acceptance by the Village of the public improvements within the development.
(Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-7: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Scope Of Requirement: No person except a person or contractor
authorized by the Village President, Village Administrator, or his or her
designee, may perform any of the following acts without first obtaining from
the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, a permit for which the fee
shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this Code, and nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt
any person from the requirements of obtaining any additional permits as are
required by law:
      1.   Plant on Village-owned property, or treat, prune, remove or
otherwise disturb any tree, shrub, or other plant located on Village-owned
property, except that this provision shall not be construed to prohibit owners
of property adjacent to Village- owned property from watering or fertilizing
without a permit any tree, shrub, or other plant located on such Village-owned
property;
      2.   Trim, prune, or remove any tree or portions thereof if such tree or
portions thereof reasonably may be expected to fall on Village-owned property
and thereby to cause damage to persons or property;
      3.   Place on Village-owned property, either above or below ground level,
a container for trees, shrubs, or other plants;
      4.   Damage, cut, tap, carve, or transplant any tree, shrub, or other
plant located on Village-owned property;
      5.   Attach any rope, wire, nail, sign, poster, or any other manmade
object to any tree, shrub, or other plant located on Village-owned property;
      6.   Dig a tunnel or trench on Village-owned property.
   B.   Issuance: The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, shall
issue a permit to perform any of the acts specified in subsection A of this
section and for the specific work for which a permit is requested if:
      1.   Such acts would result in the abatement of a public nuisance or to
otherwise comply with the provisions of this Code; and
      2.   An application has been signed by the applicant and submitted to the
Village Administrator, or his or her designee, detailing the location, number,
size, and species of trees, shrubs, or other plants that will be affected by
such acts, setting forth the purpose of such acts and the methods to be used,
and presenting any additional information that the Village Administrator, or
his or her designee, may find reasonably necessary and the Village
Administrator determines that such application and the related submittal(s) are
in substantial compliance with the requirements of this chapter; and
      3.   The applicant agrees to perform the work for which the permit is
sought in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and in accordance with
any specific directions or conditions as required by the Village Administrator,
or his or her designee; and
      4.   If the work for which a permit is issued entails the felling of any
tree or part thereof, located on private property, which, as a result of such
felling reasonably may be expected to fall upon Village-owned property, and if
such felling is done by one other than the owner of the property on which such
felling is done, then the applicant shall agree to indemnify and to hold the
Village, its officers, agents, and employees, harmless for all damages
resulting from work conducted pursuant to the permit and shall deposit with the
Village Administrator a liability insurance policy in the amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per person, two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per
accident for bodily injury liability and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
aggregate for property damage liability, which policy shall name the Village,
its officers, agents and employees, as additional insureds; and
      5.   Any such permit so issued by the Village Administrator, or his or
her designee, shall specify the work authorized to be performed and shall be
valid for a period of thirty (30) calendar days, after which such permit shall
expire. If the specified work has not been completed within said timeframe, the
applicant shall then be required to re-apply for a new permit in order to
complete the work.
   C.   Public Utility Companies: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
exempt public utility companies or their agents from any of the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-8: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Nuisances Declared: The following are hereby declared public nuisances
under this chapter:
      1.   Any dead or dying tree, shrub, or other plant, located on private
property which reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any tree, shrub, or
other plant.
      2.   Any otherwise healthy tree, shrub, or other plant, located on
private property, which harbors insects or diseases which reasonably may be
expected to injure or harm any tree, shrub, or other plant.
      3.   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof, located on
private property, which by reason of location or condition constitutes an
imminent danger to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public.
      4.   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof, located on
private property which obstructs the free passage of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or which obstructs a street sign on Village property.
      5.   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof, located on
private property which dangerously obstructs the view as such may be determined
by the Village pursuant to this chapter.
      6.   Any tree, shrub, or other plant, or portion thereof which obstructs
or interferes with the operation of any tile, drain or culvert or with the
operation of any existing individual sewage disposal system.
   B.   Right To Inspect: The Village Administrator, or his or her designee,
shall have the authority to enter onto private property whereon there is
located a tree, shrub, plant or plant part that is suspected to be a public
nuisance.
   C.   Inspection And Approval Of Removal Required: Notwithstanding anything
contained in this chapter to the contrary, any property owner may remove or
cause to be removed from his or her property any public nuisance as defined in
subsection A of this section, but only after inspection of such suspected or
alleged public nuisance by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee,
and receipt by the property owner of the prior written approval from the
Village Administrator, or his or her designee, for the removal thereof.
   D.   Abatement: The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this chapter:
      1.   Any public nuisance under this chapter which is located on privately
owned property shall be pruned, removed, or otherwise treated by the property
owner or his/her agent in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement
of the nuisance within a reasonable time after identification thereof, but only
after inspection of such suspected or alleged public nuisance by the Village
Administrator, or his or her designee, and receipt by the property owner of the
prior written approval from the Village Administrator, or his or her designee,
for the removal thereof. No property owner may be found guilty of violating
this provision unless and until the following requirements of notice have been
satisfied:
         a.   The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, shall cause a
written notice to be personally served or sent by regular U.S. mail postage
paid to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the
last preceding year;
         b.   Such notice shall describe the kind of tree, shrub, or other
plant or plant part which has been declared to be a public nuisance; its
location on the property; the reason for declaring it a nuisance;
         c.   Such notice shall describe by legal description or by common
description the premises;
         d.   Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance;
         e.   Such notice shall require the elimination of the nuisance no more
than ten (10) days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to whom
was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year; and
         f.   In the event that the nuisance is not abated by the date
specified in the notice, the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, is
authorized to and may cause the abatement of said nuisance at the property
owner's sole cost and expense, and any costs therefor incurred by the Village
shall constitute a debt due and owing to the Village by the property owner and
shall promptly be reimbursed to the Village by the property owner, or the
Village may record a lien against the respective property for any such costs
incurred by the Village.
      2.   The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, is authorized to
cause the immediate abatement of any public nuisance provided that the nuisance
is determined by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, to be an
immediate threat to any person, or property. Abatement by the Village of any
such nuisance located on property not owned by the Village shall be performed
at the property owner's sole cost and expense, and any costs therefor incurred
by the Village shall constitute a debt due and owing to the Village by the
property owner and shall promptly be reimbursed to the Village by the property
owner, or the Village may record a lien against the respective property for any
such costs incurred therefor by the Village. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-9: PERMITS TO PLANT OR REMOVE TREES OR SHRUBS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful to plant, remove or cut down any tree or shrub within any
public street or right-of-way or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor from the Village as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-10: DAMAGING TREES OR SHRUBS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any public place.
(Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-11: ADVERTISEMENTS, NOTICES ON TREES OR SHRUBS:
It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway or other public place. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-12: PLANTS OVERHANGING PUBLIC PLACES; ROOTS IMPEDING DRAINAGE:
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the Village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting
premises so that the obstruction shall be removed. Roots of any tree or shrub
which impede drainage shall be removed by the owner of the abutting premises
pursuant to a permit obtained from the Village for said work as provided in
section
11-1-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to or does fall on or across
any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the abutting premises
pursuant to a permit obtained from the Village for said work as provided in
section
11-1-7 of this chapter.
   C.   If the owner of the abutting premises fails to fulfill said
responsibilities as specified above, the Village may fulfill said
responsibilities, but shall not be required to do so. Removal by the Village of
any such obstruction located on property not owned by the Village shall be
performed at the property owner's sole cost and expense, and any costs therefor
incurred by the Village shall constitute a debt due and owing to the Village by
the property owner and shall promptly be reimbursed to the Village by the
property owner, or the Village may record a lien against the respective
property for any such costs incurred therefor by the Village. (Ord. 2018-O-18,
9-4-2018)
11-1-13: POLES, WIRES TO BE KEPT AWAY FROM TREES AND SHRUBS:
Any person given the right to maintain poles and wires above ground in the
streets, alleys or other public places in the Village shall, in the absence of
provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles
free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as may be
possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed and subject
to the supervision of the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, so
that no injury shall be done to the poles or wires or shrubs and trees by
contact. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-1-14: ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS:
   A.   The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be the
enforcement authority for the purposes of the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The owner of property on which one or more trees is located or on which
any regulated activity affecting one or more trees is or will be undertaken
which is the subject of any decision of the Village Administrator, or his or
her designee, made pursuant to this chapter may appeal that decision in writing
to the Village President. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Village President
shall schedule and hold an informal hearing on such appeal as soon as practical
after having given seven (7) days' written notice to the parties to such
appeal. The Village President shall render a decision in writing on such appeal
as soon as practical after such hearing. Any party to such appeal may further
appeal the decision of the Village President on such appeal to the entire
Village Board, which shall as soon thereafter as practical, render a final
decision on such appeal based upon the written submissions by each party to the
appeal. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 2
TREE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Established
11-2-2: Functions
11-2-3: Enforcement; Arborist
11-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
A tree committee, hereinafter called "committee", is hereby established and
will consist of one tree committee chair and two (2) tree committee members all
being active, elected village trustees of the village of Lake Barrington, as so
duly appointed by the village president for a term renewable after each
municipal election. (Ord. 2001-O-30, 11-6-2001)
11-2-2: FUNCTIONS:
The tree committee's functions will be to defend, protect, and uphold this
title of this code regarding trees, including the village of Lake Barrington's
tree preservation ordinance, recommend an annual budget to the president and
village board of trustees for a community forestry program, and to provide
recognition of "Arbor Day" with observance information and annual "Arbor Day"
proclamations as so determined by said committee. (Ord. 2001-O-30, 11-6-2001)
11-2-3: ENFORCEMENT; ARBORIST:
Per this title, the village administrator of the village of Lake Barrington, or
his designee, is appointed as the enforcement officer of the tree preservation
ordinance on the behalf of said committee. The said enforcement officer has the
right to hire or contract a village arborist to investigate trees and submit
recommendations to the committee. (Ord. 2001-O-30, 11-6-2001)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCE TREES, WEEDS, AND OTHER NUISANCE PLANTS
ARTICLE A. WEEDS AND OTHER NUISANCE PLANTS
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Weeds Declared A Nuisance; Height Restriction
11-3A-2: Removal Required
11-3A-3: Enforcement
11-3A-1: WEEDS DECLARED A NUISANCE; HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
   A.   Without in any way limiting the term "noxious weeds" by the enumeration
that follows, all noxious weeds, including, but not limited to: burdock,
cocklebur, Columbus grass, curled dock, jimson, johnsongrass, Kudzu, lamb's
quarters, marijuana, poison hemlock, poison ivy, ragweed (giant), ragweed
(common), rough pigweed, smart weeds (all varieties), sowthistle (perennial),
teasel, thistle (musk), thistle (Canada), thistle (common), wild carrot, wild
hemp, wild lettuce, wild mustard, and weeds which due to pollination are a
menace to health and weeds otherwise injurious to public health or welfare, are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any noxious weeds, grass, or
other plants to grow to a height exceeding six inches (6") on any lot or parcel
within the Village; and any such noxious weeds, grass or other plants as
described above exceeding such maximum height are hereby declared to be a
nuisance (hereinafter referred to as "nuisance plants") and are prohibited,
provided, however, that this height restriction shall not be applicable to: 1)
trees, bushes, flowers, and/or other ornamental plants, and/or private
raingardens, and/or butterfly or pollinator gardens which have been designed as
such; 2) any vegetation on any open space, park, preserve, and/or other place
which is publicly held; 3) any vegetation on any land held as open space, as a
park, and/or as a preserve by any not-for-profit corporation; 4) any lot or
parcel within the Village which is located within the Village's Agricultural
Overlay District and is used or has historically been used for the keeping of
equine, bovine, or caprine, consistent with the Village's Zoning Regulations
(Title 8 of this Village Code); or 5) any vegetation on any privately owned
community association or development common areas designed, planted, and
managed, with predominantly natural vegetation. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018; amd.
Ord. 2023-O-19, 8-10-2023; Ord. 2024-O-13, 9-3-2024)
11-3A-2: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any real estate
within the corporate limits of the Village to permit the growth thereon of
"nuisance plants" as defined in section
11-3A-1 of this article. All such nuisance plants shall be cut and removed by
the owner(s), occupant(s), and/or other person in control of said real estate
as often as needed to comply with section
11-3A-1 of this article. Any failure to cut and remove nuisance plants as
required by this section shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-3A-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Owner/Occupant Responsibility: The owner and/or occupant of any real
estate within the corporate limits of the Village shall be responsible for and
shall cause the cutting and removal of "nuisance plants" as defined in section
11-3A-1 of this article, the trimming and/or the removal of nuisance bushes
and/or trees.
   B.   Abatement By Village: The officers, employees, and agents of the
Village are hereby authorized to enter upon private property to inspect such
property for violations of this article and/or for the purpose of abating such
violations.
   C.   Costs As A Lien: The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, may
on behalf of the Village cause the cutting and removal of such "nuisance
plants" as defined in section
11-3A-1 of this article, the trimming and/or the removal of bushes and trees
when the owner(s) of real estate refuses or neglects to trim, and/or remove
them ("nuisance bushes and trees") and to collect from the owner(s) of private
property the reasonable cost thereof. This cost incurred shall be a lien upon
the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except
tax liens; provided that within sixty (60) days after such cost and expense is
incurred, the Village or person performing the service by authority of the
Village, in his or its own name, files notice of lien in the Office of the
Recorder in the County in which such real estate is located. The notice shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred or payable for the service, and 3) the date or dates
when such cost and expense was incurred by the Village. However, the lien of
such Village shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose right in and to such
real estate has arisen subsequent to the cutting and removal of nuisance
plants, or subsequent to the trimming and/or the removal of nuisance bushes or
trees, and prior to the filing of such notice, and the lien of the Village
shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose
rights in and to such real estate arise prior to the filing of such notice.
Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in
such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released
by the Village or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release
may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien. The cost of the
cutting, trimming, and/or removal of nuisance plants, trees, and/or bushes
shall not be a lien on the real estate affected unless a notice is personally
served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax
bill for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year, or if
the property is exempt from Real Estate Taxes, to the owner of record. The
notice shall be delivered or sent after the cutting, trimming, and/or removal
of nuisance plants, trees, and/or bushes on the property. The notice shall
state the substance of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7 and the
substance of any ordinance of the Village implementing this section and shall
identify the property, by common description, and the location of the nuisance
plants, trees, and/or bushes to be cut.
   D.   Penalties: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or other
entity who or which violates any of the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of not less than such amount as
specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that any violation of this article shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
ARTICLE B. DISEASED TREES; INFESTED TREES
SECTION:
11-3B-1: Right To Inspect
11-3B-2: Nuisance Declared
11-3B-3: Duty Of Owner/Occupant To Abate
11-3B-4: Notice To Abate
11-3B-5: Abatement By Village; Certain Costs Constitute A Lien
11-3B-6: Failure To Remove Tree Prohibited
11-3B-7: Penalties
11-3B-1: RIGHT TO INSPECT:
The Village Administrator, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to enter on and upon private property whereon there is located any elm
trees having the appearance of or suspected of being diseased with Ceratocystis
ulmi, commonly called the Dutch elm disease, ash trees infested with the
emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire), or any tree of the species
of oak having the appearance of or suspected of being affected with the fungus
Ceratocystis fagacearum, commonly called "oak wilt", and/or any tree having the
appearance of or suspected of being infected with conifer bark beetles, all as
determined by the Village Administrator, or his or her designee, for the
purpose of inspecting said suspected tree, and, if necessary, removing
therefrom samples or portions thereof to be tested to establish whether said
tree is, in fact, diseased or infested. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-3B-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
In the event that it is determined by the Village Administrator, or his or her
designee, that any tree is, in fact, diseased, infested, or infected as
described in section
11-3B-1 of this article, all as determined by the Village Administrator, said
tree or trees shall forthwith be and are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-3B-3: DUTY OF OWNER/OCCUPANT TO ABATE:
The owner, occupant, or agent of the parcel of land on which exists a diseased,
infested, or infected tree as described in section
11-3B-1 of this article, all as determined by the Village Administrator, shall
forthwith remove and destroy said tree and shall chip the same or shall cause
the same to be removed, destroyed, and ground, milled, chipped, or otherwise
disposed of consistent with the provisions of the applicable State or Federal
quarantine within ten (10) days of notification to such owner, occupant, or
agent that said tree is, in fact, diseased, infected, and/or infested. No chips
or other particles resulting from such removal operation shall exceed one inch
(1") in any dimension, unless allowed pursuant to the provisions of any
applicable State or Federal quarantine. All stumps of such diseased, infected,
and/or infested trees shall be removed to a depth of not less than eight inches
(8") below the ground surface and then covered with soil of the same depth. No
ash material shall be removed from any quarantine zone as imposed from time to
time by any State or Federal agency, unless such removal is done consistent
with the provisions of the State or Federal quarantine. Notwithstanding any
other provisions in this article to the contrary, all removal operations for
such diseased, infected and/or infested tree(s) shall fully comply with all
applicable State and Federal Statutes and/or regulations as exist from time to
time. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-3B-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Whenever the owner or occupant of any private property containing a diseased,
infected and/or infested tree permits the diseased, infected and/or infested
tree to remain on such premises, the Village shall proceed as follows:
   A.   A notice shall be sent by registered mail or delivered to the occupant
and to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the
last preceding year on the premises.
   B.   Such notice shall state that there is a diseased, infected, or infested
tree as described in section
11-3B-1 of this article on the premises, the notice shall describe the premises
by legal description or by street address, and the notice shall state that
unless the diseased, infected, or infested tree is removed on or before the
date stated in the notice, the diseased, infected, or infested tree shall be
removed at the property owner's expense. The date stated in the notice shall be
not less than thirty (30) days after the date of delivery or mailing of the
notice.
   C.   There shall be included with such notice a copy of this article or the
ordinance from which it is derived and a copy of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-20-12. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
11-3B-5: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; CERTAIN COSTS CONSTITUTE A LIEN:
In all cases where the owner, occupant, or agent of the parcel of land on which
said diseased, infected, or infested tree is located cannot be found, or if
found and notified as aforesaid neglects or refuses to abate said nuisance, it
shall be lawful for the Village to abate the same by the removal, destruction,
and chipping of said diseased, infected, or infested tree and in that event the
said owner, occupant and agent or any of them shall be charged with those
expenses which may be incurred by the Village in the removal or abatement of
the diseased, infected, or infested tree as aforesaid, which expense shall
constitute a debt due and owing to the Village and shall be collected by the
Village by suit or otherwise in addition to the fine or penalty provided. Such
expenses incurred by the Village for the removal of a tree or trees diseased,
infected, and/or infested as described in section
11-3B-1 of this article shall be a lien upon the affected real estate in
accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-
2018)
11-3B-6: FAILURE TO REMOVE TREE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises in the Village to permit any
tree or portion thereof which is diseased, infected, and/or infested as
described in section
11-3B-1 of this article, all as determined by the Village Administrator, to
remain on such premises or anywhere within the Village. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-
2018)
11-3B-7: PENALTIES:
Any person, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity who or which
violates any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an offense
punishable by a fine of not less than such amount as specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that any violation of this article shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2018-O-18, 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF COURSE MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose And Intent
11-4-2: Definitions
11-4-3: Applicability
11-4-4: Obligation(s) To Maintain; Joint And Several Obligation(s)
11-4-5: Low Maintenance Zones
11-4-6: Management Of Grass Clippings And Vegetative Matter
11-4-7: Inspections
11-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to set forth certain guidelines and
specific requirements relative to the management and maintenance of existing
golf course(s) located within the corporate limits of the village in order to
minimize negative secondary and cumulative environmental effects associated
with the mismanagement of or the failure to properly maintain existing golf
courses, thereby having the potential to adversely affect the natural and
constructed stormwater drainage conveyances, rivers, creeks, canals, springs,
lakes, estuaries and other water bodies of the village and of the region, which
are assets critical to the environmental, recreational, cultural and economic
well being of the village residents and the health of the public. (Ord. 2011-O-
01, 3-1-2011)
11-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this
section unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
ADMINISTRATOR: The village administrator, or an elected or administrative
official or employee of the village designed by the village administrator to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
BOARD: The board of trustees of the village of Lake Barrington, Lake County,
Illinois.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, OFFICIAL, OR INSPECTOR: Any designated employee or
agent of the village whose duty it is to enforce codes and ordinances adopted
by the village.
GOLF COURSE: An area used or designated as a municipal, public, semiprivate, or
private golf course at the effective date hereof, or thereafter so used or
designated, for the play or practice of the game of golf, including, but not
limited to, the surrounding grounds, turf and landscape plants.
LANDSCAPE PLANT: Any native, nonnative, or exotic tree, shrub, perennial
flower, or groundcover (excluding turf).
PERSON: Any natural person, business, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, limited partnership, association, club, organization, and/or any
group of people acting as an organized entity.
PLAYABLE CONDITION: Substantially the same good condition for use by golfers as
that which exists or existed as of the effective date of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, maintaining all turf and landscape plants which
are part of such golf course, substantially in the same good condition as
exists or existed as of the effective date of this chapter, subject only to the
normal seasonal changes in the respective condition of such turf and landscape
plants.
TURF, SOD, OR LAWN: A piece of grass covered soil held together by the roots of
the grass.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2011-O-
01, 3-1-2011)
11-4-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be applicable to and shall regulate any and all golf courses
within the corporate limits of the village, unless such golf course is
specifically exempted by a separate village ordinance from the regulatory
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 3-1-2011)
11-4-4: OBLIGATION(S) TO MAINTAIN; JOINT AND SEVERAL OBLIGATION(S):
All turf and landscape plants which are part of any existing golf course shall
be maintained in good and playable condition, and such obligation for ongoing
maintenance shall be binding upon all of the owner(s) of record of any such
golf course, including, but not limited to, the beneficiaries of any trust
holding title thereto, any tenant(s), manager(s), superintendent(s), or person
(s) similarly situated, of such golf course(s) and any receiver or financial
institution or person(s) similarly situated having possession of or exercising
legal or de facto control or management of such golf course(s). (Ord. 2011-O-
01, 3-1-2011)
11-4-5: LOW MAINTENANCE ZONES:
A limited low maintenance zone to enhance water quality is strongly
recommended, but not mandated, adjacent to any pond, stream, watercourse, lake,
or wetland but only with the prior written approval of the code enforcement
officer. A swale/berm system is recommended for installation at the landward
edge of this low maintenance zone to capture and filter runoff. If more
stringent or restrictive regulations of this code or Illinois statute or
regulations apply, this provision does not relieve the requirement to adhere to
the more stringent or restrictive regulations. No mowed or cut vegetative
material shall be deposited or left remaining in this zone or deposited in the
water. Care shall be taken to prevent the overspray of aquatic weed products in
this zone. Care shall be taken to ensure erosion of the surface soil does not
occur. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 3-1-2011)
11-4-6: MANAGEMENT OF GRASS CLIPPINGS AND VEGETATIVE MATTER:
In no case shall grass clippings, vegetative material, and/or vegetative debris
either intentionally or accidentally be washed, swept, or blown off into
stormwater drains, ditches, conveyances, water bodies, wetlands, or sidewalks
or roadways. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 3-1-2011)
11-4-7: INSPECTIONS:
The code enforcement officer shall be allowed access to all golf course land in
order to determine whether all such golf course land is being maintained in
compliance with the requirements specified in this chapter. Inspections may be
made on a random basis or in conjunction with a complaint received by the
village. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 5
PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Penalty Provisions
11-5-1: PENALTY PROVISIONS:
   A.   The removal, cutting, and/or other destruction of any heritage tree,
and/or regulated activity otherwise adversely affecting any tree, without a
tree permit shall result in a fine equal to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
per inch of trunk size, as measured six inches (6") above the established
ground level, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per inch for other trees, but
provided, however, that in any event the removal, cutting and/or other
destruction of, and/or regulated activity otherwise adversely affecting any
tree in violation of this title shall result in a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). The cutting or destruction of each tree shall be a
separate violation.
   B.   Any other violation of this title shall result in fine(s) and other
penalties for each offense as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a condition continues in violation of the
provisions of this title shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   In the event that any person undertakes any removal, cutting and/or
other destruction of, and/or regulated activity otherwise adversely affecting
any tree without a permit due to emergency circumstances, the village
administrator, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to waive any
penalty or to issue a tree permit after the fact of such cutting or
destruction. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008; amd. Ord. 2011-O-01, 3-1-2011)
TITLE 12
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-1-1: General
12-1-2: Applicability
12-1-3: Validity
12-1-4: Duties And Powers Of The Enforcement Officer
12-1-5: Existing Systems
12-1-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Title: This Title shall be known as the INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SYSTEMS TITLE of the Village Code hereinafter referred to as "this Title".
   B.   Scope: Individual sewage disposal systems are required where no
sanitary sewer is legally available to the property to be served. Unless
specifically approved, the individual sewage disposal system of each building
shall be entirely separate from and independent of that of any other building.
   C.   Intent: This Title shall be construed liberally and justly to secure
the proper design and installation of systems for the treatment and disposal of
sewage; to ensure minimum standards for sewage discharges, the location,
installation, alteration, operation, maintenance, and monitoring of all
individual sewage disposal systems so as to protect land, water, groundwater
and other natural resources within the Village from impairment, pollution, or
destruction; to minimize the risk of spreading communicable diseases, and to
prevent and avoid other health and ecologic hazards attributable to bacteria,
viruses, protozoa and helminths, as well as chemical contamination of lands and
waters. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: The provisions of these regulations shall cover all matters
affecting or relating to individual sewage disposal as set forth in this Title.
   B.   Matters Not Provided For: Any private sewage disposal requirement
essential for the sanitary safety of an existing or proposed building or
structure or essential for the health or safety of the occupants thereof, and
which is not specifically covered by this Title, shall be determined by the
Enforcement Officer.
   C.   Continued Use: The continuation of use of a private sewage disposal
system, or part thereof, contrary to the provisions of this Title shall be
deemed a violation, and subject to the penalties prescribed in Chapter 15 of
this Title.
   D.   Referenced Standards: The standards referenced in this Title and listed
in Appendix A shall be considered part of the requirements of this Title to the
prescribed extent of each reference. Where differences occur between provisions
of this Title and referenced standards, the provisions of this Title shall
apply except as specified in Chapter 18 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-
1996)
12-1-3: VALIDITY:
   A.   Partial: In the event any part or provision of this Title is held to be
illegal or void, such finding shall not have the effect of making void or
illegal any of the other parts or provisions thereof, which are determined to
be legal, and it shall be presumed that this Title would have been approved
without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.
   B.   Segregation: Any invalid part of this Title shall be segregated from
the remainder of the Title by the court holding each part invalid, and the
remainder shall remain effective. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-1-4: DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   A.   General: The Enforcement Officer shall enforce all of the provisions of
this Title and shall act on any question relative to the mode or manner of the
design or construction and the materials to be used in the installation of
individual sewage disposal systems, except as otherwise specifically provided
for by statutory requirements, and shall specifically act as follows:
   B.   Applications And Permits: The Enforcement Officer shall receive
applications and issue permits for the installation of private individual
sewage disposal systems, inspect the premises for which such permits have been
issued and enforce compliance with the provisions of this Title.
   C.   Notices And Orders: The Enforcement Officer shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to require the
necessary safeguards during construction, and to ensure compliance with all
requirements of this Title. Any written order posted on premises involved shall
not be removed except by order of the Enforcement Officer. Removal without such
order shall constitute a violation of this Title. The Enforcement Officer may
revoke, by writing, any permit or approval issued contrary to this Title or
based upon a false statement or misrepresentation in the application.
   D.   Authority To Enter Premises: The Enforcement Officer, after
identification, shall have the authority to enter any property at any
reasonable time to inspect for health and sanitation purposes, and for
compliance with the provisions of this Title. The Enforcement Officer may also
make any necessary test, including dye tests or obtaining effluent samples for
laboratory analysis, on any property to determine compliance with the
provisions of this Title. The Enforcement Officer is authorized to engage such
expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that
arise, subject to the prior approval of the Village President or Village Board
for the level of expenditure required.
   E.   Credentials: The Enforcement Officer and authorized representatives
shall carry proper credentials of their respective office for the purpose of
inspecting any and all systems in the performance of duties under this Title.
   F.   Official Records: The Enforcement Officer shall keep official records
of applications received, permits and certificates issued, fees collected,
reports of inspections, and notices and orders issued. Such records shall be
retained in the official records so long as the building or structure to which
they relate remains in existence unless otherwise provided for. (Ord. 96-O-16,
12-17-1996)
12-1-5: EXISTING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Continued System Use: The legal use and occupancy of any structure
serviced by an individual sewage disposal system, which had been heretofore
approved, shall be permitted to be continued without change, except as
specifically addressed in this Title.
   B.   System Maintenance: All individual sewage disposal systems, both
existing and new, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All
service equipment, devices and safeguards which are required by this Title, or
which were required by previous statute, shall be maintained in working order
as when installed or repaired.
      1.   Maintenance Responsibility: The owner of record, the beneficial
owner, and the occupant of the premises shall each be jointly and severally
responsible for the safe and sanitary maintenance of the individual sewage
disposal system for any building or structure at all times. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-
17-1996)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: General
12-2-2: General Definitions
12-2-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Scope: Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and terms
shall, for the purposes of this Title, have the meanings indicated in this
Chapter.
   B.   Terms Not Defined: Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this Section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
APPROVED OR APPROVAL: Accepted by or acceptable to the Village of Lake
Barrington Enforcement Officer.
BEDROOM: Any room of seventy five (75) square feet or larger, containing a
closet, which is suitable to regular use as a bedroom and which shares a common
hallway with or is adjoining at least a three-quarter (3/4) bath.
BUILDING SEWER: That part of the horizontal piping of a drainage system which
extends from the end of the building drain, receives the discharge of the
building drain and conveys it to a public sewer, private sewer, individual
sewage disposal system, or other point of disposal. The building sewer
commences five feet (5') outside the building foundation wall.
CLASS I AEROBIC UNIT: A mechanical wastewater treatment unit which is certified
by NSF International as Class I.
COARSE SAND: Fill material having an effective diameter of 0.15 to 0.30 mm with
a coefficient of uniformity <5.0, and having less than twenty percent (20%)
material coarser than 2 mm and less than five percent (5%) silt and clay.
COMPONENT: An integral part of a private sewage disposal system that is
necessary for the satisfactory design, construction and operation of the
system.
CONSTRUCTION PERMIT: A nontransferable permit issued to a licensed installation
contractor to construct an individual sewage disposal system to the
specifications of the plan approved for the system.
DISCHARGE RATE: The volume of wastewater discharged from a low pressure
distribution system expressed as gallons per minute, and applied as a rate
either per perforation, per line, or per system.
DISTAL END PRESSURE: A measure of system pressure in a low pressure
distribution system made at the end of a lateral distribution pipe opposite the
force main connection, and expressed as feet of pressure head.
DIVERTER VALVE: A valve with a single inflow which may be adjusted to direct
outflow into any one of two (2) or more directions.
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Wastewater typical of a residential flow, containing human
wastes, moderate concentrations of soaps and detergents, minimum concentrations
of grease and toxics such as normal household cleaning agents.
EFFLUENT FILTER: A device installed at the outflow of a septic tank which
screens and collects solids ordinarily suspended in solution.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Those officers, employees, independent contractors, or the
designated agents of same as authorized by the Village President to enforce
this Title.
EXPANSION AREA: An area designated for the replacement or enlargement of a
soil-based individual disposal system.
FLOODPLAIN: The elevation of base flood elevation expressed as U.S. Geological
Survey (mean sea level) National Geodetic Vertical Datum, which establishes the
100-year flood limit, and adjacent lands of equal or lower elevation.
FLOW CONTROL DEVICE: A device specially designed to equalize the outflow
elevation of effluent from a distribution box, typically a rotating pipe cap
provided with an off-center outflow orifice which can adjust the flowline by
rotation of the cap.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A sewage treatment and disposal system which
infiltrates treated wastewater into soil, or disposes of treated wastewater by
another means pursuant to a variation to this Title granted by the Village
Board.
INDIVIDUAL SITE: A parcel or tract with an existing individual sewage disposal
system, any platted lot, or any parcel or tract of land not proposed for
subdivision or resubdivision.
INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR: Any person who constructs, installs, repairs, modifies
or maintains a private sewage disposal system shall be licensed by the Illinois
Department of Public Health as a private sewage system installation contractor.
ISOLATION DISTANCE: The vertical measurement from a wastewater application
point to a limiting layer.
LIFT STATION: A watertight containment vessel intended solely to collect
pretreated effluent and containing a submersible effluent pump, external pump
switch(es), an audio-visual alarm and additional pump control devices.
LIMITING LAYER: That plane in a soil profile which restricts the placement of a
wastewater application point due to conditions including, but not limited to,
seasonal high water table or permanent saturated conditions, restrictive
permeability (loading rate of 0 gpd/sq. ft.), excessive permeability (gravelly
coarse sand or coarser texture), or fractured bedrock.
LOADING RATE: The maximum rate, based upon a soil's texture, structure, and
consistence and expressed as gallons per day per square foot of infiltration
area, at which effluent may be applied to a soil absorption system.
MOTTLING: A redoximorphic feature of some soils which is associated with high
water tables, appearing as spotty patches of red, brown, orange and gray colors
and having a Munsell color chart chroma equal to or less than 2 and a value
equal to or greater than 4.
NONCONFORMING SYSTEM: A system intended for an atypical use or application for
which special consideration to flow, wastewater strength, or wastewater
disposal may result in special requirements which exceed the standards set
forth in this Title.
PERSON: Any organization, corporation, firm, individual, partnership or other
entity.
PRETREATMENT UNIT: A septic tank or multiple tanks or a Class I aerobic unit,
including trash tanks if recommended, properly sized for the projected daily
wastewater volume and providing physical, chemical and biological treatment to
raw wastewater prior to its application to a soil infiltration system.
PUMPING CONTRACTOR: Any person who cleans or pumps waste from a private sewage
disposal system or hauls or disposes of wastes removed therefrom shall be
licensed by the Illinois Department of Public Health as a private sewage
disposal system pumping contractor.
REDOXIMORPHIC FEATURES: Soil characteristics associated with wetness which
result from the reduction and oxidation of iron and manganese compounds in the
soil, and are indicative of the extent of soil saturation.
REPAIR: The replacement of or the addition or modification to an existing
individual sewage disposal system, or any components thereof other than soil
absorption capacity, which is continuing to serve the same dwelling or
structure, excluding maintenance activities such as pumping the tank,
replacement of baffles or filter, replacement of electrical or mechanical
components such as pumps, switches, motors or controls.
SEPTAGE: Liquid and solid material removed from domestic septic tanks or other
approved pretreatment systems, and specifically excluding wastes from portable
toilets, holding tanks, grease traps and sewage treatment plant sludge
material.
SHALL: The stated provision is mandatory.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A prepared plan which illustrates the finished
contouring of a site, including modifications to the site associated with
proposed work on the sewage system, to specifications acceptable to the Village
of Lake Barrington.
SOIL CLASSIFIER: One of the following:
   A.   A person currently certified as a soil classifier by the Illinois Soil
Classifiers Association (ISCA) or by the American Registry of Certified
Professionals in Agronomy, Crops and Soils (ARCPACS).
   B.   A person who is a full member or associate member of the Illinois Soil
Classifiers Association (ISCA), provided that direct supervision is provided to
this person by an ISCA or ARCPACS certified soil classifier who accompanies the
person on at least twenty five percent (25%) of the soil investigations and
reviews and signs all of that person's soil investigation reports.
SOIL RESOURCE GROUP: A group of soils specific to this Title which share common
traits and similar subsoil materials.
SYSTEM TYPE: Soil infiltration systems segregated by this Title into five
types, I through V as illustrated in Appendix E of this Title, based upon the
extent of physical contact between seepage trench or bed aggregate material and
the natural soil.
TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEY: A representation of changes in elevation of a property
prepared to scale by an Illinois licensed surveyor or engineer, which depicts
each one foot (1') change in elevation by a contour line, is referenced to a
benchmark which is based upon U.S. Geological Survey (mean sea level) National
Geodetic Vertical Datum, and which encompasses a sufficient area to include the
proposed structure, the individual sewage disposal system area and any other
topographical feature relevant to the wastewater system.
WASTEWATER APPLICATION POINT: The point lowest in elevation at which wastewater
applied to a soil infiltration system will first contact with soil or fill
material.
WATER TABLE: The upper limit of the portion of the soil which is completely
saturated with water. The seasonal high water table is the highest level to
which the soil is saturated, as may be indicated by mottling (soil color
patterns).
WETLAND: Land that is inundated or saturated by surface or shallow ground water
at a sufficient frequency and duration to support, under ordinary conditions, a
prevalence of vegetation adapted to such conditions (hydrophytic vegetation).
(Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-3-1: General
12-3-2: Restrictions
12-3-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Authority: The Enforcement Officer, in order to protect and promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the Village of Lake
Barrington, Illinois, and other affected communities, is authorized and
directed to develop procedures, practices and policies; to interpret and
enforce these rules and regulations establishing minimum standards for sewage
discharges, the location, installation, alteration, operation, maintenance, and
monitoring of all individual sewage disposal systems, so as to protect land,
water, groundwater and other natural resources within the Village of Lake
Barrington from impairment, pollution, or destruction; to minimize the risk of
spreading communicable diseases, and to prevent and avoid other health and
ecologic hazards attributable to bacteria, viruses, protozoa and helminths, as
well as chemical contamination of lands and waters.
   B.   Minimum Standards: This Title establishes minimum standards to minimize
the risk that individual sewage disposal systems:
      1.   Drinking Water Supply: Do not contaminate any drinking water supply.
      2.   Carriers Of Disease: Are not accessible to insects, rodents, or
other possible carriers of disease which may come into contact with human food
or drinking water.
      3.   Water Pollution Or Contamination: Do not pollute or contaminate any
body of water, surface waters, or any public or domestic water supply, or any
aquifer.
      4.   Nuisance: Do not give rise to a nuisance due to odor or unsightly
appearance.
      5.   Pollution: Will not violate any other laws or regulations governing
control of water pollution or sewage disposal. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-3-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Public Sewer Availability: The Enforcement Officer shall refuse to
grant a permit for an individual sewage disposal system where a public sewer is
legally available. A sewer shall be deemed available when the improvement to be
served is located within a reasonable distance of an approved point of
connection and the connection is permitted by the Village. For example, a
public sewer constructed and financed by a Village special service area is
legally available only if the property in question is within the limits of such
special service area. A reasonable distance shall be two hundred fifty feet
(250') from a single-family residence property or a commercial establishment of
less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons per day, and one thousand
feet (1,000') from a commercial establishment over one thousand five hundred
(1,500) gallons per day, a multi-family dwelling, or a new subdivision.
   B.   Water Conserving Plumbing Fixtures: Any dwelling or establishment
proposed to be serviced by an individual sewage disposal system shall utilize
water conserving plumbing fixtures, including, but not limited to, low flush
volume toilets (1.6 gallons per flush) and flow restricting (2.5 gallons or
less per minute) faucets and showerheads. Whenever whirlpool tubs, spas, etc.,
with a capacity exceeding sixty (60) gallons are proposed, the projected daily
flow of the wastewater system shall be increased by that capacity.
   C.   Property Boundaries: Individual sewage systems shall not be located
outside of the property boundaries of the serviced dwelling or establishment,
nor serve more than one dwelling or structure unless approved as a
nonconforming system in accordance with Section
12-5-5 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 4
UNSANITARY CONDITIONS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Discharge Of Improperly Treated Sewage
12-4-2: Abatement Order
12-4-1: DISCHARGE OF IMPROPERLY TREATED SEWAGE:
Every individual sewage disposal system shall be maintained in proper sanitary
condition and repair by the owner, by the beneficial owner, and/or by the
occupant of the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or
permit the discharge of improperly treated sewage directly or indirectly to any
wetland, surface waters, ground surface, well or abandoned well, or to allow
the contents of any sewage disposal system or components thereof to emit
offensive odors or become objectionable so as to be dangerous or prejudicial to
health. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-4-2: ABATEMENT ORDER:
Upon verification of any such unsanitary condition, the Enforcement Officer
shall give written notice to the owner and/or legal occupant responsible for
such acts or emissions ordering immediate abatement of same. Failure of any
person to obey such an abatement order shall constitute a violation of this
Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 5
APPROVAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-5-1: General
12-5-2: New Construction
12-5-3: Repairs
12-5-4: Alterations Or Additions
12-5-5: Nonconforming Systems
12-5-6: Proposed Subdivision
12-5-7: Administration
12-5-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Construction And/Or Repair: No person shall construct or repair an
individual sewage disposal system without the prior approval of the Enforcement
Officer. Such approval shall include both the approval of a plan for the
proposed construction or repair, and the issuance of a permit to conduct the
work required.
   B.   Subdivision Of Property: No property, where individual sewage disposal
systems are to be used, shall be subdivided into two (2) or more parts by means
of mapping, plotting, conveyance, change or rearrangement of boundaries without
prior approval of the Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-5-2: NEW CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   New Construction Approval Conditions: Approval for a new individual
sewage disposal system shall be granted when all of the following conditions
are met:
      1.   Soil Evaluation Report: A soil evaluation report issued in
accordance with Section
12-6-3 of this Title determines the soil to be suitable.
      2.   Site Plan: A site plan prepared in accordance with Chapter 9 of this
Title demonstrates as follows:
         a.   System Type: The system type as specified by the soil evaluation
is designed in an area of suitable soils for the proposed flow and at the
assigned loading rates.
         b.   Expansion System: Each individual sewage disposal system shall
have an expansion system designed in suitable soil and sized equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the primary system. This requirement shall apply both
to applications for new systems as well as to applications for all alterations
or additions.
         c.   Slope: The slope does not exceed twenty five percent (25%).
      3.   Floodplain Elevation: The wastewater application point is at or
above the 100-year flood elevation. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-5-3: REPAIRS:
   A.   Approval Conditions: Approval for the repair of an individual sewage
disposal system shall be granted when the following conditions are met:
      1.   Soil Evaluation Result: A soil evaluation result issued in
accordance with Chapter 6 of this Title determines the soil to be suitable,
excepting that no soil evaluation is required where the proposed repair is only
for the replacement or addition of septic tanks, lift stations, pretreatment
units, distribution boxes, solid piping, or other components other than
absorption capacity; and
      2.   Site Plan: A site plan prepared in accordance with Chapter 9 of this
Title demonstrates as follows:
         a.   Proposed Repair: The proposed repair is for the replacement or
addition of components of the pretreatment or distribution system, and does not
include soil absorption capacity, or
         b.   System Type: The system type as specified by the soil evaluation
report is designed in an area of suitable soil for the proposed flow and at the
assigned loading rate.
   B.   Compliance Impossible: A repair of a failing system may be approved
when the system as designed cannot meet the criteria for flow and loading rates
as assigned by the soil evaluation report, but the proposal is in substantial
compliance with these criteria so as to reasonably meet the requirements for
wastewater disposal, and to be in the best interest of public health. The
Enforcement Officer may require that the owner of record place restrictions
upon the use of the system to reduce flow or minimize the risk of system
failure. Such restrictions shall be promptly recorded with the Lake County
Recorder of Deeds by the owner of record or his agent and a copy shall then be
delivered to the Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-5-4: ALTERATIONS OR ADDITIONS:
   A.   Approval Conditions: No dwelling or establishment served by an
individual sewage disposal system may be altered, expanded, remodeled, or added
to where such change may affect the individual sewage disposal system without
prior approval of the Enforcement Officer. Applications for alterations or
additions shall be reviewed and approved as follows:
      1.   Water Usage: Proposals for alterations or additions which may
increase water usage, including, but not limited to, the addition of bedrooms,
full baths, or hot tubs or whirlpools shall meet the provisions of subsection
12-5-3A of this Chapter.
      2.   Square Footage: Proposals for alterations or additions which
increase the square footage of a dwelling by over fifty percent (50%) shall
meet the provisions of subsection 12-5-3A of this Chapter.
      3.   Commercial Establishment, Less Than Six Hundred Gallons Per Day:
Proposals for a change of use for a commercial establishment or institution
which projects an increase in wastewater volume, but where the total projected
flow is less than six hundred (600) gallons per day, shall meet the provisions
of subsection 12-5-3A of this Chapter.
      4.   Commercial Establishment, Six Hundred Or More Gallons Per Day:
Proposals for a change of use for a commercial establishment or institution
which projects an increase in wastewater volume, and where the projected flow
equals or exceeds six hundred (600) gallons per day, shall meet the provisions
of subsection 12-5-2A of this Chapter.
      5.   Required Separation: Proposals for an alteration or addition to any
property shall meet the required separation of system components and the soil
absorption and expansion areas as established by Appendix D of this Title.
Decks shall be allowed over system components provided that access is provided
for maintenance and repair, and that the deck is meeting separation
requirements from the soil absorption and expansion areas.
      6.   An expansion system as specified in subsection 12-5-2A2b of this
Chapter shall be required for all alterations and additions. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-
17-1996)
12-5-5: NONCONFORMING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Approval Conditions: Approval for a proposed wastewater system may
require a system design, construction plans, construction procedures, system
materials, or other agreements and conditions which exceed the requirements of
this Title where the proposed system meets any of the following conditions:
      1.   Projected Wastewater Flow: The projected wastewater flow exceeds one
thousand five hundred gallons per day (1,500 gpd).
      2.   Shared Systems: Any part of the proposed wastewater system is shared
by two (2) or more owners, including community systems or clustered systems.
      3.   Nonresidential Wastewater: The wastewater influent quality may be
projected to exceed three hundred (300) ppm BOD5, such as from food service
establishments, automotive repair operations or other industrial activity.
      4.   Wastewater Reuse Or Recycling: Any portion of the treated wastewater
is proposed for reuse or recycling.
   B.   Prior Proposal Review: The Enforcement Officer shall review any
proposal for a nonconforming system prior to its submittal for approval, and
shall establish additional requirements, if any, appropriate for the proposed
use. Said review shall consider those elements of the proposal which may stress
the wastewater system such as waste strength (BOD, solids, greases and oils,
etc.), peak flows, seasonal flow variations, soil or site limitations, and
elements of the proposal which may require special arrangements for access or
maintenance such as shared ownership. Any nonconforming system shall require a
variation from the provisions of this Title as provided by Section
12-7-5 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-5-6: PROPOSED SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Approval Conditions: Where individual sewage disposal systems are to be
used for any subdivision or resubdivision of any subdivision, tract, parcel, or
lot of land into two (2) or more parts of mapping, platting, conveyance, change
or rearrangement of boundaries, the Enforcement Officer shall review each lot
to ensure it will have an area suitable for an individual sewage disposal
system and the required expansion area sized for a five (5) bedroom residence.
No subdivision shall be approved unless all final lots are determined by the
Village to be suitable to support an individual sewage disposal system and the
required expansion area, both for a five (5) bedroom residence in accordance
with the following standards:
      1.   Site Suitability: The suitability of proposed subdivision sites
utilizing individual soil absorption sewage disposal systems shall be
determined by the results of the soil evaluations that are conducted in
accordance with Chapter 6 of this Title, and by the platting of proposed lots
with Chapter 9 of this Title.
      2.   Natural Resource Protection: The subdivision shall be designed to
protect all natural resources such as drainageways, wetlands, wooded areas,
surface waters, and soil conditions. Such information shall be provided by a
registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Illinois
in accordance with Section
12-9-5 of this Title.
      3.   Expansion Areas: Every lot served by an individual sewage disposal
system shall have an area of suitable soil for sewage disposal sufficient for
both a primary system and the required expansion system, relative to soil
conditions and system design. A review shall be made of the preliminary plat
and the soil borings and lot lines shall be adjusted to eliminate any
unsuitable lots.
      4.   Area Protection: All designated individual sewage disposal system
areas must be protected from damage during the construction of the roads,
utilities, drainage, etc., in the subdivision. Snow fencing, two-by-fours or
equivalent shall be placed so as to protect wastewater disposal areas. (Ord.
96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-5-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Procedures And Fees: Administrative procedures and fees relative to
this Section shall be in accordance with Chapter 16 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-
16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 6
SITE SUITABILITY
SECTION:
12-6-1: Soil Evaluation
12-6-2: Soil Descriptions
12-6-3: Minimum Soil Conditions
12-6-4: Soil Evaluations Of Record
12-6-5: Administration
12-6-1: SOIL EVALUATION:
   A.   General: All proposed individual sewage disposal soil absorption
systems shall be designed based upon soil characteristics as identified by a
certified soil classifier, and as recorded on a soil evaluation report.
   B.   Proposed Subdivision: New proposed subdivisions, where individual
sewage disposal soil absorption systems are proposed, shall be designed based
upon soil characteristics as identified by a certified soil classifier.
   C.   Soil Evaluation: Soil evaluations shall be conducted by a certified
soil classifier or by the Lake County Health Department. The person conducting
the soil evaluation shall notify the Enforcement Officer forty eight (48) hours
in advance and provide as follows:
      1.   Proposed Site: The proposed site shall be reasonably cleared of
brush, weeds, and tall grass. Note: Equipment shall not be operated on sites
which are wet or damp.
      2.   Lot Corners: The lot corners shall be marked on individually platted
lots, or permanent reference points established for proposed subdivisions.
      3.   Soil Pits: Soil observation pits shall be excavated to a minimum of
twenty four inches (24") in width, and shall be sixty inches (60") deep.
      4.   Soil Cores: The Enforcement Officer may accept soil cores as meeting
the requirement of this Section and standard practice.
   D.   Minimum Number Of Observation Points: Soil observation points shall be
located as is necessary to accurately determine a site's soil characteristics,
however, a minimum number as follows:
      1.   Individual Sites: On individual sites, a minimum of four (4)
observation points shall be required with at least one point located in an area
lower in elevation than any proposed soil absorption system or expansion area.
      2.   Proposed Subdivisions: For new proposed subdivisions, a minimum of
two (2) observation pits for every proposed lot is required with intermediate
observations at critical soil boundaries so as to allow intensive mapping of
soil characteristics applicable to this Title. At least one observation point
shall be located in the proposed locations of the primary seepage area and the
expansion seepage area of each proposed lot. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-6-2: SOIL DESCRIPTIONS:
   A.   General: Soil characteristics shall be described based upon United
States Department of Agriculture - Natural Resources Conservation Service
(formerly the Soil Conservation Service) National Standards. Descriptions shall
include depth in inches to changes in soil texture, soil structure, soil
consistence and/or compaction, observed saturation, soil coloration, and depth
to redoximorphic features indicative of saturation including, but not limited
to, common (2% - 20%) low chroma mottles (equal to or less than 2 and a value
of 4 or more based upon Munsell color chart). Descriptions shall be recorded to
a depth of sixty inches (60").
   B.   Additional Determination And Assignments: In addition to the standard
soil description in subsection A of this Section, the certified soil classifier
shall make determinations and assignments based upon those descriptions as
follows:
      1.   Soil Resource Group: Each observation point soil profile shall be
classified in accordance with Appendix B of this Title to establish a soil
resource group, soil series or classification, the depth to a limiting layer,
and the corresponding minimum ISD system type. ISD system types relate to the
depth to a limiting layer, and establish a required minimum separation distance
between the limiting layer and a wastewater application point of twenty four
inches (24"). Except relative to proposed lots in a proposed subdivision, the
minimum separation distance between the limiting layer and the wastewater
application point may be reduced to sixteen inches (16") where a class I
aerobic unit is employed.
      2.   Wastewater Loading Rates: Each soil description shall assign maximum
wastewater loading rates in accordance with appendix B of this title, as
follows:
         a.   Soil descriptions shall be segregated by horizon.
         b.   Each segregated horizon shall be assigned a loading rate between
zero gallons per day per square foot (gpd/sq. ft.) and 0.8 gpd/sq. ft. (Ord.
96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-6-3: MINIMUM SOIL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Soil Suitability: As a minimum, any soil located in a proposed soil
absorption or expansion area must be described as having twelve inches (12") of
suitable soil at the surface, meeting all of the following conditions:
      1.   Seasonally Saturated: The soil shall not be seasonally saturated to
within twelve inches (12") of the surface. The soil classification as provided
by subsection 12-6-2B1 of this chapter and appendix B of this title specifies
that an identified ISD system type is permitted.
      2.   Texture, Structure And Consistency: The texture, structure and
consistency are such that the loading rate, specified by subsection 12-6-2B2 of
this chapter and appendix B of this title is greater than zero gpd/sq. ft.
   B.   Made Land Soils: Soils which are not naturally occurring, having been
filled over, cut or otherwise disturbed so as to make their classification
impossible or impracticable, may be considered as suitable where the depth to
seasonal saturation and the soil texture, soil structure, and soil consistency
meet the criteria for suitable soil established in this section. A more
extensive soil investigation may be necessary to determine the suitability of
made land. The certified soil classifier shall assign an ISD system type and
loading rates in accordance with appendix B of this title. (Ord. 2006-O-20, 6-
5-2006)
12-6-4: SOIL EVALUATIONS OF RECORD:
Soil evaluations conducted prior to the effective date of this title may be
acceptable as meeting the purpose of this section provided the evaluation was
conducted by a Lake County health department employed soil scientist or by a
certified soil classifier, and the soil profile description is sufficient to
allow a translation of information by the enforcement officer to appendix B of
this title for a determination of soil suitability. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-6-5: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Procedures And Fees: Administrative procedure and fees relative to this
section shall be in accordance with chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. 96-O-16,
12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 7
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM DESIGN
SECTION:
12-7-1: Purpose
12-7-2: Minimum Requirements
12-7-3: Design Specifications
12-7-4: Low Pressure Distribution
12-7-5: Nonconforming Systems
12-7-1: PURPOSE:
Individual sewage disposal systems proposed for approval shall meet the
requirements of this Section. The purpose of this Section is as follows:
   A.   Minimum Vertical Separation Distance: To ensure that proposed
individual sewage disposal systems employ an ISD system type most appropriate
for the site's soil characteristics in order to maintain a minimum vertical
separation distance between a limiting layer and a wastewater application
point.
   B.   Long-Term Wastewater Treatment And Disposal: To ensure that each ISD
system type is designed to best facilitate the long-term treatment and disposal
of wastewater employing the most appropriate loading rates and application
methods.
   C.   System Capacity: To ensure that ISD systems are of an adequate capacity
to treat and dispose of the projected wastewater volume. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-
1996)
12-7-2: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design: Any individual sewage disposal system and its required
expansion area proposed for approval shall be designed to meet minimum
requirements as follows:
      1.   Suitable Soil: Any soil absorption system and its required expansion
area shall be located in suitable soil in accordance with Section
12-6-3 of this Title.
      2.   System Type: Any soil absorption system and its required expansion
shall be of an ISD system type as specified by Section
12-6-2 and Appendix B of this Title, and the design for that ISD system type
shall conform to the requirements of this Section and any applicable elements
of materials incorporated by Appendix A of this Title.
      3.   Site Contour: Any soil absorption system and its required expansion
area shall be designed to be parallel to the site contour. Soil absorption
systems shall not be situated on slopes which are concave to the extent that
horizontal subsurface movement of wastewater may concentrate that flow in a
small downslope area.
      4.   Design Sizing: All components of an individual sewage disposal
system and the soil absorption area shall be properly sized for the wastewater
flow projected by Appendix C of this Title in accordance with all other
applicable requirements of this Section.
      5.   Horizontal Separation Distances: Individual sewage disposal systems
shall be separated from water wells and water supply lines, surface waters,
topographical features, artificial drains, property lines and easements, and
construction elements by a distance adequate to protect the system from any
damage or interference with the treatment and disposal process, and to ensure
that untreated wastewater does not contaminate drinking waters, surface waters,
or the ground surface, in accordance with Appendix D of this Title.
      6.   Prohibited Wastes: Individual sewage disposal systems shall be
designed to receive only domestic sewage. No discharges from footing drains,
water softeners, air conditioning, or other clear water source, nor greases,
oils, solvents or other waste except domestic sewage shall be discharged into
an individual sewage disposal system.
      7.   Construction And Materials: Individual sewage disposal systems shall
be designed to allow their construction in accordance with Chapter 10 of this
Title and shall specify approved materials in accordance with Chapter 11 of
this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-7-3: DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Design Requirements: Individual sewage disposal system types shall be
designed in accordance with the requirements of this Section, and with the
design requirements further specified in the incorporated materials of Appendix
A of this Title for the specific system type where not otherwise specified.
   B.   ISD System Types: ISD system types shall be particularly designed as
follows:
      1.   Type 1 And Type 2 Absorption Trench Systems: Type 1 and 2 absorption
trench systems shall be designed to minimum requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by septic tank sized for the projected
design flow per Appendix C of this Title.
         b.   Distribution to the absorption trench may be by drop box, serial
distribution, or by equal flow distribution box. Piping and distribution device
size and material shall comply with Chapter 11 of this Title.
         c.   Lift stations, if required, shall be sized according to Appendix
C of this Title.
         d.   Distribution into the absorption trench shall be by perforated
pipe.
         e.   No perforation shall be located closer than three feet (3') to
the proximal end of the absorption trench.
         f.   The invert of the distribution pipe shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") above the trench bottom.
         g.   The square footage of trench bottom area shall be equal to the
projected flow in gallons per day (gpd) divided by the assigned wastewater
loading rate in gallons per day per square foot.
         h.   The maximum trench length shall be one hundred feet (100') from
the distribution device. All trenches connected to an equal flow distribution
box shall be of equal length.
         i.   The maximum trench width shall be thirty six inches (36"); the
minimum trench width shall be twelve inches (12").
         j.   Trenches shall be separated by a minimum of four feet (4') of
undisturbed soil.
         k.   The maximum trench depth for a Type 1 system shall be eighteen
inches (18") into the original soil or otherwise deeper as approved so as to
maintain the required vertical isolation distance.
         l.   The maximum trench depth for a Type 2 system shall be twelve
inches (12") into the original soil.
         m.   The minimum depth of gravel in the absorption trench shall be
twelve inches (12"), with six inches (6") of gravel beneath the distribution
pipe and two inches (2") above. Gravel shall not be placed closer than twenty
four inches (24") to the distribution device.
         n.   Every Type 2 system shall be covered with a minimum of six inches
(6") of topsoil or otherwise as is necessary to support vegetative cover with a
maximum cover of eighteen inches (18").
         o.   Where distribution to and into a Type 1 or 2 system is by low
pressure pipe, the applicable requirements of subsection B2 of this Section and
Section
12-7-4 of this Chapter shall apply.
         p.   Seepage beds, if proposed, shall be sized at 1.5 times the trench
absorption area.
         q.   Leaching chambers, if proposed, shall be sized according to the
square footage of the trench bottom relative to the width at the chamber.
      2.   Type 3 Absorption Trench Systems: Shall be designed to minimum
requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by Class I aerobic unit sized for the
projected flow per said Appendix C.
         b.   The soil absorption area shall be plowed and filled in accordance
with Sections
12-10-3 and
12-10-4 of this Title. The fill material shall extend a minimum of ten feet
(10') beyond any absorption trench. The depth of fill material shall be a
minimum of ten inches (10").
         c.   Distribution to and into the absorption trench shall be by low
pressure pipe (LPP). LPP network piping shall be as specified in this Section
and in Section
12-7-4 of this Chapter.
         d.   The lift station shall be sized according to Appendix C of this
Title.
         e.   No perforation shall be located closer than five feet (5') to the
proximal end of the absorption trench.
         f.   The invert of the distribution line shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") above the trench bottom.
         g.   The square footage of trench bottom area shall be equal to the
projected daily flow in gallons per day divided by the assigned wastewater
loading rate in gallons per day per square foot.
         h.   The maximum trench length shall be seventy feet (70') from the
manifold connection.
         i.   The maximum trench width shall be twenty four inches (24"); the
minimum trench width shall be twelve inches (12").
         j.   Trenches shall be separated by a minimum of four feet (4') of
undisturbed soil.
         k.   The maximum trench depth of a Type 3 system shall be six inches
(6") below the grade of the original soil. A Type 3 system may be constructed
with the trench bottom at original grade.
         l.   The minimum depth of gravel in the absorption trench shall be ten
inches (10"), with six inches (6") of gravel beneath the pipe and two inches
(2") above.
         m.   Gravel shall not be placed closer than twenty four inches (24")
to the manifold trench.
         n.   Every Type 3 system shall be covered with a minimum of six inches
(6") of topsoil or otherwise as is necessary to support vegetative cover with a
maximum limit to cover depth of eighteen inches (18").
         o.   Leeching chambers shall be sized according to the square footage
of the trench bottom relative to the width of the chamber.
      3.   Type 4 At-Grade Absorption Systems: Type 4 at-grade absorption
systems shall be designed to minimum requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by septic tank sized for the projected flow
per Appendix C of this Title and augmented by an approved effluent filter, or
by a Class I aerobic unit sized for the projected flow per said Appendix C.
         b.   The soil absorption area shall be plowed in accordance with
Section
12-10-3 of this Title.
         c.   Distribution to and into the absorption area shall be by low
pressure pipe (LPP). LPP network piping shall be as specified in this Section
and in Section
12-7-4 of this Chapter.
         d.   The lift station shall be sized according to Appendix C of this
Title.
         e.   The invert of the distribution lines shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") above original grade.
         f.   The square footage of absorption area shall be equal to the
projected daily flow in gallons per day divided by the assigned wastewater
loading rate in gallons per day per square foot.
         g.   The minimum length of the at-grade wastewater absorption area
parallel to the site contour shall be limited by the maximum linear loading
rate. The linear loading rate is equal to the projected daily flow in gallons
per day divided by the total length of the absorption area in feet, and shall
be limited as follows:
            (1)   Type 4 systems on soils in resource groups A, B or C shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of twelve (12) gallons per day per
foot.
            (2)   Type 4 systems on soils in resource groups D or E shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of six (6) gallons per day per
foot.
         h.   The minimum depth of gravel in the at-grade absorption area shall
be ten inches (10"), with six inches (6") of gravel beneath the pipe and two
inches (2") above.
         i.   The gravel of an at-grade soil absorption system shall be covered
with a minimum of twelve inches (12") of topsoil to support vegetative cover.
Additional cover shall be placed to shed storm water.
         j.   The gravel shall be completely covered with an appropriate
geotextile prior to the placement of topsoil.
         k.   Type 4 at-grade systems shall comply with the provisions of
Wisconsin At Grade Soil Absorption System Siting, Design and Construction
Manual as incorporated in Appendix A of this Title.
      4.   Type 5 Mound Systems: Type 5 Mound Systems shall be designed to
minimum requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by septic tank sized for the projected flow
per Appendix C of this Title and augmented by an approved effluent filter, or
by a Class I Aerobic Unit sized for the projected flow per said Appendix C.
         b.   The soil infiltration area shall be plowed and filled in
accordance with Sections
12-10-3 and
12-10-4 of this Title. The fill material shall cover the soil infiltration
area, or basal area.
         c.   Distribution to and into the application bed shall be by low
pressure pipe (LPP). LPP network piping shall be as specified in this Section
and in Section
12-7-4 of this Chapter.
         d.   The lift station shall be sized according to Appendix C of this
Title.
         e.   The invert of the distribution line(s) shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") above the fill material.
         f.   The square footage of the application bed (absorption area) shall
be equal to the projected daily flow in gallons per day divided by the loading
rate of the coarse sand fill, one gallon per day per square foot (1 gpd/sq.
ft.) or 1.2 gpd/sq. ft. where an aerobic unit is proposed for pretreatment.
         g.   The minimum length of the application bed parallel to the site
contour shall be limited by the maximum linear loading rate. The linear loading
rate is equal to the projected daily flow in gallons per day divided by the
total length of the application bed in feet and shall be limited as follows:
            (1)   Type 5 systems on soils in resource groups A, B or C shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of eight (8) gallons per day per
foot.
            (2)   Type 5 systems on soils in resource groups D or E shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of four (4) gallons per day per
foot.
         h.   The square footage of the infiltration area (basal area) shall be
equal to the projected daily flow divided by the assigned soil wastewater
loading rate in gallons per day per square foot.
         i.   The basal area is defined, based upon the slope of the site,
illustrated in Appendix E of this Title.
         j.   The minimum length of the basal area shall be equal to the
minimum length of the application bed, set subsection B4g of this Section.
         k.   The fill material shall be extended beyond the basal area,
tapering to grade at 3:1 slope.
         l.   The minimum depth of gravel in the application bed shall be ten
inches (10"), with six inches (6") of gravel beneath the pipe and two inches
(2") above.
         m.   The minimum depth of coarse sand fill material covering the basal
area shall be twelve inches (12").
         n.   The entire Type 5 mound system shall be covered with a minimum of
twelve inches (12") of topsoil to support vegetative cover. Additional cover
shall be placed over the application bed at a slope in order to shed storm
water.
         o.   The gravel of the application bed shall be completely covered
with an appropriate geotextile prior to the placement of topsoil.
         p.   Type 5 mound systems shall comply with the provisions of
Wisconsin Mound Soil Absorption System Siting, Design and Construction Manual
as incorporated in Appendix A of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-7-4: LOW PRESSURE DISTRIBUTION:
Distribution of wastewater into individual sewage disposal systems by low
pressure pipe (LPP) systems as required by this Section shall be designed to
minimum requirements, as follows:
   A.   Pretreatment of effluent shall include an approved effluent filter for
septic tank effluent, or a Class I aerobic unit, as prescribed by Section
12-7-3 of this Chapter for Type 3 systems.
   B.   Minimum supply/manifold line diameter shall be two inches (2").
   C.   Minimum lateral wastewater distribution pipe diameter shall be one and
one-quarter inches (11/4").
   D.   Minimum perforation size shall be three-sixteenths inches (3/16").
   E.   Maximum perforation spacing shall be six feet (6').
   F.   Minimum distal end pressure on any lateral line shall be one foot (1')
of pressure head (0.43 psi).
   G.   Maximum distal end pressure on any lateral line shall be five feet (5')
of pressure head (2.16 psi).
   H.   The discharge rate of distribution lines shall be a minimum of .15
gallons per minute per lineal foot, and shall be equal among all distribution
lines to within plus or minus five percent (±5%).
   I.   Construction shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 10 of this
Title, and all materials shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 11 of
this Title.
   J.   Low pressure pipe distribution systems shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of Design and Installation of Low-Pressure Pipe Waste Treatment
Systems, as incorporated by Appendix A of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-
1996)
12-7-5: NONCONFORMING SYSTEMS:
   A.   Design Requirements: The design of wastewater systems which are
considered nonconforming in accordance with Section
12-5-5 of this Title, shall not be approved except pursuant to a variation
approved by ordinance of the President and Board of Trustees and shall meet the
standard required for variations as required by this Title as well as minimum
standards as established by this Section:
      1.   Wastewater Pretreatment: Pretreatment of wastewater shall be
sufficient to provide effluent suitable for the proposed disposal process. Any
requirement for pretreatment which is beyond the specifications of this Title
shall be established based upon projections of wastewater strength, wastewater
components, peak flows, soil conditions, or other factors recognized by
standard practice as stressful to individual sewage disposal systems.
      2.   Effluent Application: Application of effluent to a soil absorption
system shall be designed to preserve the infiltrative capacity of the soil.
Consideration shall be given to application methods, such as dosing and
alternation of absorption systems, and to the system's potential effect on the
soil matrix, such as clogging and ground water mounding.
      3.   Maintenance Responsibility: Maintenance and operational procedure
and responsibility shall be closely established and provided for in a binding
covenant, or other legal agreements as are deemed appropriate by the Village's
legal representation. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 8
CONTINGENCY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
12-8-1: General
12-8-2: Soil Limitations; Unsuitable Soil
12-8-3: Design Limitations; Noncompliant System Design
12-8-4: Special Use Systems
12-8-5: Administration; Procedure
12-8-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Criteria: The design of wastewater systems proposed for use which may
be approved by the Village Board in accordance with this Section shall comply
with the specific criteria established in this Section and any other applicable
criteria established elsewhere in this Title or in the materials incorporated
by Appendix A of this Title.
      1.   Proposed Subdivisions: Contingency systems shall not be approved for
proposed subdivisions.
   B.   Approval: Whenever approval for an Individual Sewage Disposal System,
as required by Chapter 5 of this Title, is impossible or impractical, and a
variation is requested pursuant to Sections
12-15-5 and
12-15-6 of this Title, the Village Board may consider alternatives as described
in this Section. When approval is denied by the Enforcement Officer as not
meeting the design requirements of Section
12-7-2 of this Title, requiring specific design parameters for the ISD system
type, the Village Board may approve a variation for an individual sewage
disposal system in accordance with this Section.
   C.   Minimum Requirements: Any contingency individual sewage disposal system
proposed shall meet minimum requirements as follows:
      1.   Proposal: A contingency system may be proposed only where an
individual sewage disposal system design cannot meet the requirements of
Chapter 5 and Section
12-7-2 of this Title.
      2.   Design Limitations: A contingency system may be approved only where
its design is specific to overcome the limitations to approval of an individual
sewage disposal system per Chapter 5, and where its use is consistent with the
purpose of this Title to protect and provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the people of the Village and other affected communities. (Ord. 96-
O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-8-2: SOIL LIMITATIONS; UNSUITABLE SOIL:
Whenever approval of an individual sewage disposal system is impossible or
impractical because the soil is not suitable, the Village Board may approve a
contingency system as follows:
   A.   Artificial Drainage: When the soil is not suitable only because it is,
or is likely to be, saturated to within twelve inches (12") of the soil's
surface, the Village Board may approve a Type 5 system with artificial drainage
to alter or modify the movement of groundwater into and through the soil. The
Type 5 system shall meet the requirements of subsection 12-7-3B4 of this Title
and the effectiveness of the drains shall be demonstrated as follows:
      1.   The drain(s) shall be installed as proposed, and the saturation of
the soil shall be monitored by an Illinois licensed professional engineer or a
certified soil classifier and the Enforcement Officer during March, April, and
May when the average rainfall is not greater than ten percent (10%) less than
the historical average.
      2.   The construction and location of monitoring wells or piezometers and
the frequency of observations shall be established by the Enforcement Officer.
The monitoring wells shall be installed as specified by the Enforcement
Officer.
      3.   The drains shall maintain a minimum equilibrium soil saturation
level twenty four inches (24") below the surface; or
   B.   Special Use System: When the soil is not suitable because its texture,
structure or consistence is not suitable and the assigned wastewater loading
rate is 0.0 gallons per day per square foot, the Village Board may approve a
variation for a special use system as provided for in this Section to accept,
in whole or in part, the wastewater flow for treatment, disposal or storage.
(Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-8-3: DESIGN LIMITATIONS; NONCOMPLIANT SYSTEM DESIGN:
Whenever approval for an individual sewage system is impossible or impractical
because the proposed design is not in compliance with the provisions of Chapter
5 and Section
12-7-2 of this Title, the Village Board may approve a variation for a
contingency system as follows:
   A.   Alternating Soil Absorption Systems: ISD System Types 1, 2 and 3 may be
approved where two (2) separate soil absorption systems are installed, and each
subsystem is equal to seventy percent (70%) of the required capacity provided
that:
      1.   All other provisions of this Title are met.
      2.   The distribution to and into the subsystems is by low pressure pipe
in accordance with subsection 12-7-3B2 and Section
12-7-4 of this Title, as applicable.
      3.   The supply line is split by a single diverter valve into supply
lines to each of the subsystems.
      4.   An agreement is established with a licensed contractor to alternate
the use of the subfields on a yearly basis.
   B.   Special Use Systems: A special use system as provided for in this
Section may be approved by the Village Board by a variation to accept, in whole
or in part, the wastewater flow for treatment and disposal. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-
17-1996)
12-8-4: SPECIAL USE SYSTEMS:
   A.   Variance Approval: Whenever an individual sewage disposal system cannot
be approved because a soil absorption system cannot meet the requirements of
this Title, the Village Board may approve a variation for a special use
absorption system to accept, in whole or in part, wastewater for treatment and
disposal.
   B.   Surface Discharging System: Buried sand filters, recirculating sand
filters, Class I aerobic units, or other wastewater treatment processes
designed to treat, disinfect, and discharge to the surface may be approved by
the Village Board by a variation provided that:
      1.   Failing System: The system is proposed to replace a substandard
existing system for an existing structure.
      2.   Unsuitable Soil: All suitable soils on the site have been employed
for wastewater infiltration.
      3.   Dilution: A discharge point to a surface water or wetland provides a
minimum 1:1 dilution of the effluent.
      4.   Recreational Water Restriction: The proposed discharge point is a
minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile from an area used for recreational purposes.
      5.   System Design: The proposed system is designed to meet final
discharge effluent standards as follows:
         a.   BOD5 less than 30 ppm.
         b.   Total suspended solids less than 30 ppm.
         c.   Fecal coliform less than 400 organism/100 ml.
         d.   Residual chlorine 1.0 ppm.
   C.   Experimental Systems: The Village Board may consider, upon request, the
approval of a variation for proposed wastewater system which is different in
process or design from the specifications of this Title. The consideration of
approval of a variation for any such experimental system shall include a review
of existing performance data, if any, and an evaluation of applicable technical
criteria relative to the treatment and/or disposal of wastewater as proposed in
comparison to the intent of this Title. Any system proposed for an experimental
use shall be approved, additionally, by the Illinois Department of Public
Health. Such approval may be by the IDPH experimental use permitting procedure,
or by special consideration by IDPH of the specific proposal and individual
circumstance.
      1.   Approved Systems: The following system designs are approved, having
received approval status through the Illinois Department of Public Health
Experimental Use protocol:
         a.   Aquarobic raised filter bed;
         b.   Infiltrator chamber, models EQ-36 and EQ-24. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-
17-1996)
12-8-5: ADMINISTRATION; PROCEDURE:
Administrative procedure and fees relative to this Chapter shall be in
accordance with Chapter 16 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 9
PLANS
SECTION:
12-9-1: Plans Required
12-9-2: Site Plan Specifications
12-9-3: Plan Specifications For System Components, Repairs, Replacements Or
Additions
12-9-4: Supplemental Information
12-9-5: Proposed Subdivisions
12-9-1: PLANS REQUIRED:
Prior to granting approval for an individual sewage disposal system, the
Enforcement Officer shall review a site plan prepared according to this Chapter
to determine the compliance of the proposed individual sewage disposal system
with the requirements of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-9-2: SITE PLAN SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: Any plan for an individual sewage disposal system,
except where the proposal is only to repair, replace or add septic tanks, lift
stations, pretreatment units or other components other than soil absorption
capacity, shall meet minimum standards as established in this Section.
   B.   Professional Engineer: The plan shall be prepared by an Illinois
licensed professional engineer.
   C.   Topographical Survey: The plan shall be drawn on a topographical
survey, as defined by Section
12-2-2 of this Title, to provide accurate contour lines depicting each one foot
(1') change in elevation of the site and adjacent property within twenty five
feet (25') of the site.
   D.   Plan Size, Scale: The plan shall be drawn on a minimum size sheet of
eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17") and to a scale of one inch equals
ten feet (1" = 10'), one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'), or one inch equals
thirty feet (1" = 30'), unless otherwise approved.
   E.   Readable Copies: The plan shall be prepared and copied so as to be
easily readable. Minimum text size shall be font eight (8).
   F.   Dimensions: The plan shall properly locate and specify dimensions for:
      1.   Property Lines: All property lines.
      2.   Improvements: The elevation and location of all existing and
proposed buildings, driveways and other improvements, including proposed ground
contour lines depicting each one foot (1') change in elevation.
      3.   Utilities: All utility easements, underground utility and service
lines, and any overhead utility lines within twenty five feet (25') of the
proposed well location.
      4.   Water Wells: All existing and proposed water wells on the property
or within seventy five feet (75') of a property line; the entire radius of any
proposed well shall be contained on the subject property, whenever possible.
      5.   Individual Sewage Disposal Systems: All existing and proposed
individual sewage disposal systems on the property or within seventy five feet
(75') of a property line.
      6.   Drainage: All drainage easements, ditches, streams, swales or other
storm water pathways, including storm sewers, culverts and field tiles within
twenty five feet (25') of the subject property.
      7.   Surface Waters/Wetlands: All surface waters or wetlands on the
property or within one hundred feet (100') of a property line. Based upon the
discretion of the Enforcement Officer, a wetland delineation may be required.
      8.   Existing Roads And Ditches: Point elevations of existing roadside
ditches, edge and center of existing road pavement and existing road and
driveway culvert pipe inverts within seventy five feet (75') of the subject
property.
      9.   Site Development: Specific alterations to a site related to the
construction of the proposed individual sewage disposal system.
   G.   ISD Specifications: The plan shall properly locate and provide
dimensions or specifications for the proposed individual sewage disposal system
as follows:
      1.   Individual Sewage Disposal Components: Location and size of all
septic tanks, pretreatment units and lift stations.
      2.   Soil Evaluation: Location of all soil evaluation points.
      3.   Components: Location and size of all components of the soil
absorption system as applicable, including:
         a.   Piping to the soil absorption system.
         b.   Distribution boxes, drop boxes, diverter valves.
         c.   Soil absorption trenches.
         d.   Pressure distribution piping in at-grade or mound system.
         e.   Gravel application beds in mound systems.
         f.   Areas of approved filling.
      4.   Storage/Traffic: Location for material storage and a pathway for
construction traffic.
   H.   Specific Elevations: The plan shall provide specific elevations,
referenced to the topographical survey as follows:
      1.   Benchmark: The elevation of a permanent benchmark within three
hundred feet (300') of the site and referenced to U.S. Geological Survey (mean
sea level) National Geodetic Vertical Datum.
      2.   Floodplain: The elevation of floodplain, if any.
      3.   Sewer/Septic: The elevations of the invert of the building sewer and
the inlet(s) of the septic tank or other pretreatment units.
      4.   Distribution Box: The elevation of the invert of a distribution box,
except where a lift station is proposed.
      5.   Distribution Line: The elevation of any low pressure lateral
distribution line.
   I.   Detailed Cross-Section: A detailed cross-section for the soil
absorption system specifying original grade and the relative placement of fill
material, gravel, piping and cover material.
   J.   Required Additional Information: The plan shall include additional
information as follows:
      1.   Legal Description: A legal description of the property.
      2.   Property Location: A sketch of the property location. (Ord. 96-O-16,
12-17-1996; amd. Ord. 2021-O-12, 9-7-2021)
12-9-3: PLAN SPECIFICATIONS FOR SYSTEM COMPONENTS, REPAIRS, REPLACEMENTS OR
ADDITIONS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: A plan submitted for approval where the proposal is
only to repair, replace or add system components other than soil absorption
capacity shall meet minimum standards as established in this Section.
   B.   Contractor, Professional Engineer: The plan shall be prepared by a
person licensed as a private sewage system installation contractor or a
professional engineer in accordance with Chapter 12 of this Title.
   C.   Scale: The plan shall be to a scale of one inch equals ten feet (1" =
10'), one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'), or one inch equals thirty feet
(1" = 30') unless otherwise approved.
   D.   Readable Copies: The plan shall be prepared and copied so as to be
easily readable. Minimum text size shall be font eight (8).
   E.   Plan Requirements: The plan shall show:
      1.   Buildings: The location of any buildings.
      2.   Existing Components: The location of the existing components of the
system.
      3.   Proposed System: The location and size as applicable of the proposed
repair, replacement or addition.
      4.   Water: The location of water wells and/or water supply lines.
      5.   Separation Requirements: Other information as is applicable to the
requirements of this Title for separation requirements in accordance with
Appendix D of this Title.
      6.   Legal Description: A legal description of the property.
      7.   Site Development: Specific alterations to a site related to the
repair, replacement or addition of system components. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-
1996)
12-9-4: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Required Information: Any individual sewage disposal system plan
submitted for approval shall be submitted with permit application forms
provided and shall include any other information detailing the design of the
individual sewage disposal system, where applicable, as established by this
Section.
   B.   Soil Evaluation: The soil evaluation report.
   C.   Projected Wastewater Flow: A calculation of the projected wastewater
daily flow, including a floor plan of a proposed residence or establishment.
   D.   Component Capacity: A calculation of the capacity of the components of
the system and of the soil absorption system.
   E.   Length Calculation: A calculation of the bed length of an at- grade or
mound system as referenced in subsection 12-7-3B3 and 4 of this Title.
   F.   Low Pressure Pipe Distribution System Calculation: A calculation of low
pressure pipe distribution system as referenced in subsection 12-7-4A of this
Title.
   G.   Other Applicable Information: Reports from engineers, wetland
consultants, or other professionals, as may be required to establish storm
water drainage, wetland delineations, surface water elevations, floodplain or
other applicable information necessary for the evaluation of the plan.
   H.   Variance Request: Other information as may be applicable for
consideration of a variance request. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-9-5: PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: Any preliminary plat or plan for a new subdivision
submitted for approval shall meet minimum requirements as established by this
Section.
   B.   Licensed Professional Engineer: The plan shall be prepared by an
Illinois licensed professional engineer.
   C.   Topographical Survey: The plan shall be drawn on a topographical survey
as defined by Section
12-2-2 of this Title to provide accurate contour lines depicting each one foot
(1') change in elevation.
   D.   Scale: The plan shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') or less.
   E.   Soil Evaluation Points And Soil Classifications: A drawing at the same
scale as the preliminary plat or plan shall be prepared by a certified soil
classifier. The following information shall appear on the drawing:
      1.   Soil Types: The boundaries of the various soil types occurring
within the subdivision with each type identified by both soil identification
number and name.
      2.   Soil Observation Points: The location of all soil observation pits.
      3.   Ground Water: The depth to ground water at each soil observation
point shall be as indicated.
      4.   Proposed Lots: The layout of the proposed subdivision as shown on
the preliminary plat or plan.
      5.   Topographical Survey: Existing topography as defined by Section
12-2-2 of this Title.
   F.   Site Characteristics: The plan shall locate and specify site
characteristics as follows:
      1.   Water Wells/ISD Systems: All existing water wells or individual
sewage disposal systems.
      2.   Waters Or Drainage: All existing streams, storm water runoff
channels, wetlands, surface waters, subsurface field tiles and the extent of
poorly drained areas or floodplain.
      3.   Storm Water Systems: All proposed storm water systems including
runoff channels, storm sewers, detention or retention areas and drain tile.
      4.   Roadways: Proposed roadways and other areas where existing soils
will be disturbed.
      5.   Wooded Areas: Heavily wooded areas or required conservancies.
   G.   Lot Specifications: The plan shall locate each proposed lot and shall
show the locations of the primary and expansion soil absorption areas thereon
and shall demonstrate the capacity of each lot to meet the requirements of this
Title.
   H.   Soil Maps And Soil Boring Logs: Soil maps and soil boring logs prepared
by a certified soil classifier must accompany the plan submittal. (Ord. 96-O-
16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 10
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-10-1: General
12-10-2: Permit And License Requirements
12-10-3: Site Preparation
12-10-4: Fill
12-10-5: Excavation
12-10-6: Gravel
12-10-7: Piping
12-10-8: Backfilling
12-10-9: Accessories
12-10-10: Compliance
12-10-11: Administrative Procedures And Fees
12-10-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Manner Of Construction: Every individual sewage disposal system, once
approved, shall be constructed in a manner to preserve the condition of the
soil absorption area, and to promote the long-term sanitary treatment and
disposal of wastewater.
   B.   Inspections: The Enforcement Officer shall conduct inspections of
individual sewage disposal systems under construction to ensure compliance with
the requirements of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-2: PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Construction Permit: No individual sewage disposal system shall be
constructed or repaired until a permit for its construction or repair has been
issued. An approved construction permit shall be posted on the site in a
prominent location.
      1.   Site Evaluation: The Enforcement Officer shall evaluate each site
prior to the issuance of the construction permit to ensure that the soil
absorption area has not been altered, that the soil absorption area is
protected by fencing, and that the information previously submitted and
approved is substantially unchanged.
      2.   Refusal To Issue Permit: The Enforcement Officer may refuse to issue
a construction permit where conditions on the site are inconsistent with the
approved plan, or where the soil absorption area is unprotected from
construction traffic by appropriate fencing. Where the issuance of a
construction permit is refused, the Enforcement Officer may require corrective
action or an initiation of the original approval process as appropriate.
   B.   Licensed Contractor: No person shall construct or repair an individual
sewage disposal system in the Village unless such person holds a valid private
sewage system installation contractor license in accordance with Chapter 12 of
this Title. The licensed contractor shall directly supervise all work conducted
on an individual sewage disposal system, and shall be responsible to ensure
that the work complies with this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-3: SITE PREPARATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Any preparation of the soil absorption area shall
be conducted only when the soil is dry. Site preparation shall be conducted
under the supervision of the licensed contractor as established in this
Section.
   B.   Mowed: All sites shall be mowed and cleared of brush.
   C.   Tree Removal: Any removal of trees shall be by cutting near the
surface. Stumps may be removed by grinding or cutting, but shall not be
uprooted.
   D.   Plow: Sites approved for ISD System Types 3, 4 and 5 shall be plowed
prior to the placement of fill or gravel as follows:
      1.   Equipment: Equipment shall be a chisel plow or mold board plow.
      2.   Contour: Plowing shall be done parallel to the site contour.
      3.   Tillage: Tillage shall be minimal to break the consistency of the
sod; maximum depth of tilling shall be eight inches (8") unless approved
otherwise.
      4.   After Tilling: After tilling, the site shall not be graded or
smoothed. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-4: FILL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The placement of fill material for ISD System
Types 3, 4 and 5 shall be as established in this Section.
   B.   Fill Specifications: Fill shall be approved coarse sand, except in the
Type 4 at-grade system where only gravel is required, but is handled and placed
in the same manner as fill material.
   C.   Fill Placement: The fill shall be placed according to the approved plan
and shall be placed immediately after site preparation.
   D.   Storage And Transportation: The storage and transportation of fill
shall be as specified on the approved plan; no traffic shall be allowed
directly on the plowed area.
   E.   Filling Procedure: Fill shall be placed only from the upslope or ends
of the proposed soil absorption area as follows:
      1.   Using Backhoe: Material may be placed with a backhoe reaching into
the soil absorption area.
      2.   Using Low Compression Equipment: Material may be pushed into the
soil absorption area by low compression equipment maintaining a minimum of ten
inches (10") of material beneath the equipment. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-5: EXCAVATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The excavation for components and soil absorption
trenches shall be as established by this Section.
   B.   Components: Excavations for septic tanks, pretreatment units, lift
stations, sewer lines, header lines, pressure supply lines and other system
components other than soil absorption trenches shall be as follows:
      1.   Appropriate Elevations Or Overcut: Excavations shall be made to the
appropriate elevation or overcut only to accommodate bedding material.
      2.   Grading: Excavations shall be level or uniformly graded as
appropriate so that tanks, containers, and piping is supported and secure.
      3.   Slope: Excavations for piping shall be uniformly sloped so that
wastewater does not pond in bowed areas.
   C.   Trench Excavation: Excavation for soil absorption trenches or beds
shall be as follows:
      1.   Site Contour: Excavation shall be uniformly along the site contour,
not exceeding the depth specified on the approved plan.
      2.   Bottom Surface: The trench or bed shall be excavated with a level
bottom surface.
      3.   Compaction And/Or Smearing Protection: Excavation shall be done so
as to preserve the infiltrative trench or bed bottom and sidewalls from
compaction and/or smearing. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-6: GRAVEL:
   A.   Minimum Regulations: Gravel shall be placed in soil absorption trenches
as follows:
   B.   Gravel Depth: The depth of gravel specified below the distribution pipe
shall be reasonably level.
   C.   Placement: The gravel shall be placed carefully to avoid compaction of
the infiltrative surface.
   D.   Gravel/Piping: Gravel shall be placed around the distribution piping
and covering the piping a minimum of two inches (2").
   E.   Covering: The top of gravel in any soil absorption system shall be
covered with geotextile prior to backfilling. Other approved barrier materials,
such as untreated building paper or straw, may be employed except where
geotextile is specifically required by Section
12-7-3 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-7: PIPING:
   A.   Minimum Standards: All piping installed for individual sewage disposal
systems shall be uniformly supported, sloped as appropriate, and otherwise
installed as established in this Section.
   B.   Building Sewers: Building sewers shall be sloped not less than one-
eighth inch (1/8") per foot nor more than one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot for
ten feet (10') of the sewer preceding the pretreatment unit connection.
   C.   Connections: All piping shall be connected, solvent joined, or attached
with an appropriate adapter as acceptable for the material to ensure that
connections do not separate or allow the leakage of wastewater or infiltration
of groundwater.
   D.   Sealing: Piping entering or exiting septic tanks, pretreatment units,
lift stations, distribution devices, or other component not equipped with a
watertight connection shall be sealed.
   E.   Pressure Pipe Connections: Pipe connectors and fittings on pressure
supply lines, manifolds, or lateral distribution pipes shall be pressure
connectors or fittings.
   F.   Distribution Boxes: Pipe directly connected to distribution boxes shall
be rigid, noncorrugated, nonperforated pipe extending into the absorption area
as specified by subsection 12-7-3B1 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-8: BACKFILLING:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Backfilling operations shall be conducted as
established by this Section. Backfill material shall meet the specifications
established by Section
12-11-8 of this Title.
   B.   Weather Conditions: Backfill material shall not be frozen or wet.
   C.   Timing: Backfilling and covering shall be completed as soon as
practical.
   D.   Drainage: Backfilling and covering shall direct storm water away from
system components and the soil absorption area.
   E.   Placement Around Components: Backfill for excavations of tanks,
distribution devices, piping, etc., shall be carefully placed to avoid
displacing the components. The backfill material shall be tamped or compacted
to secure the components, minimize settling, and prevent wastewater seepage
along excavations.
   F.   Placement In Soil Absorption Area: Backfill and/or cover for soil
absorption areas shall be carefully placed to avoid displacing the barrier
material.
   G.   Equipment Traffic: The backfill or cover shall be placed with a minimum
of equipment traffic.
   H.   Expansion Areas: No traffic shall be allowed on downslope areas or
expansion areas. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-9: ACCESSORIES:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Devices and piping employed for the distribution
of wastewater into the soil absorption area or regulating the flow of
wastewater shall be constructed, installed or equipped as established by this
Section.
   B.   Equal Flow Distribution Box: Where an equal flow distribution box is
employed to direct wastewater flow to two (2) or more wastewater absorption
pipes, the invert elevation of all outflow pipes shall be leveled with a
premanufactured cap specifically designed to adjust the flowline of
distribution box piping.
   C.   Perforations: Perforations drilled into low pressure pipe wastewater
distribution lines shall be carefully placed along a straight line and drilled
at a perpendicular angle to the apex of the pipe.
   D.   Other Components: Diversion valves, flow control valves, effluent
filters or any other component which is located outside of a septic tank or
similar containment shall be provided with access to final grade sufficient to
allow applicable adjustment or maintenance as required.
   E.   Lift Station Pumps: Lift station pumps shall be placed at least six
inches (6") above the floor of the lift station. Float switches shall be
secured to the vertical piping with corrosion- resistant straps or ties. All
pumps shall be provided with a threaded coupling or other disconnecting
fitting, and shall be provided with a corrosion-resistant rope, strap or other
device for removing the pump.
   F.   Audio-Visual Alarm: Pumps, aerobic units, or other mechanical system
shall be provided with an audio-visual alarm. Electrical wiring and connections
shall conform to applicable standards. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-10: COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: No individual sewage disposal system or part
thereof shall be backfilled until the system has been inspected and approved.
Any part that has been covered before inspection and approval shall be
uncovered as required by the Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Inspections: The Enforcement Officer shall make inspections of the
construction of individual sewage disposal systems to ensure compliance with
the requirements of this Title.
   C.   Required Inspections: Inspections shall be requested by the licensed
contractor as follows:
      1.   Site Preparation: Inspection of the plowed surface of the soil
absorption area.
      2.   System: Inspection of completed system prior to backfill or cover,
of low pressure pipe prior to gravel cover, and other components as necessary.
      3.   Final: Inspection of final grading, pressure tests of low pressure
systems, floor plan, clean water discharges, see accessories, and other items
as necessary.
   D.   Other Inspections: The Enforcement Officer may require or conduct any
other inspections as may be necessary.
   E.   Covering System: No portion of the system shall be covered until
approved by the Enforcement Officer. The Enforcement Officer, after
identification, shall have access to the property at any reasonable time for
the purpose of conducting inspections.
   F.   Nonconforming Parts: Where inspection discloses defective material or
unworkmanlike construction which does not conform to the requirements of this
Title, the nonconforming parts shall be removed, replaced and reinspected.
   G.   Final Approval: No individual sewage disposal system shall be placed
into service without the final approval of the Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 96-O-
16, 12-17-1996)
12-10-11: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND FEES:
Administrative procedures and fees relative to this Chapter shall be in
accordance with Chapter 16 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 11
MATERIALS
SECTION:
12-11-1: General
12-11-2: Pretreatment Components
12-11-3: Lift Stations
12-11-4: Distribution Devices
12-11-5: Valves
12-11-6: Piping
12-11-7: Fill/Aggregate
12-11-8: Backfill Material
12-11-9: Items Not Specified; Other Materials
12-11-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Minimum Standards: All materials employed in the construction or repair
of individual sewage disposal systems shall be to the specifications of this
Title to minimize maintenance, repair, or replacement and to promote the long-
term treatment and disposal of wastewater. Specifications detailed in this
Chapter shall be minimum standards.
   B.   Approval: All materials, equipment and devices approved for use shall
be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
      1.   Reconditioning: The Enforcement Officer shall have the right to
approve used materials, equipment and devices provided that such materials and
equipment have been reconditioned, tested and placed in working condition. No
reconditioned materials or equipment may be employed in Class I aerobic units.
      2.   Technical Data: The Enforcement Officer may require that sufficient
technical data be submitted to substantiate the proposed use of any material or
assembly, and if it is determined that the evidence submitted is satisfactory
proof of performance for the use intended, the Enforcement Officer shall
approve its use subject to the requirements of this Title. The costs of all
tests, reports and investigations required under these provisions shall be paid
by the applicant. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-2: PRETREATMENT COMPONENTS:
   A.   Septic Tanks: Any septic tank employed in the construction or repair of
an individual sewage disposal system shall meet the minimum standards for
construction established in the Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
and Code.
   B.   Aerobic Units: Any aerobic unit employed in the construction or repair
of an individual sewage disposal system, whether discharging into a soil
absorption system or the surface, shall be certified by NSF International as a
Class I unit.
   C.   Effluent Filters: Any effluent filter employed in the construction or
repair of an individual sewage disposal system shall be designed for the
specific purpose of filtering septic tank effluent, shall be effective in the
reduction of BOD5 and total suspended solids, and shall be easily maintained.
(Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-3: LIFT STATIONS:
   A.   General: Any lift station employed in the construction or repair of an
individual sewage disposal system shall be watertight and shall be designed to
prevent flotation when emptied.
   B.   Risers: Every lift station shall be equipped with a riser extending a
minimum of four inches (4") above grade covered with a lid secured to prevent
unauthorized entry.
   C.   Pumps And Controls: Any pump employed in the construction or repair of
an individual sewage disposal system shall be specified by its manufacturer as
an effluent or sewage pump. Pumps shall be nonautomatic, operated by an
external switch or control.
      1.   Pump Switches: Pump switches shall be sealed mercury float switches
or equal. Any pump employed in a low pressure pipe see shall be controlled by
dual switches to accurately regulate pumping volume.
      2.   Pump Controls: Pump controls, if employed, shall be operated by
mercury float switches or equal. Duplex controls shall be wired as three (3)
float, alternating cycles.
      3.   Electrical Boxes: Electrical boxes shall be watertight and located
outside of the pump tank.
      4.   Timing: No pump shall be operated by a timing mechanism unless
specifically proposed and approved for the individual circumstance. (Ord. 96-O-
16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-4: DISTRIBUTION DEVICES:
Any distribution boxes employed in the construction or repair of an individual
sewage disposal system shall be constructed of concrete or plastic. (Ord. 96-O-
16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-5: VALVES:
   A.   General: Any valve employed in the construction or repair of an
individual sewage disposal system shall be as established by this Section.
   B.   Diversion Valves: Diversion valves shall be PVC and shall be designed
with one inlet dividing flow into either of two (2) or more outlets, and be
operated by a single valve control.
   C.   Ball Or Gate Valves: Ball valves or gate valves in low pressure pipe
systems shall be PVC.
   D.   Check Valves: Check valves, where required, shall be PVC solvent joined
or compression fitting. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-6: PIPING:
   A.   General: Any piping employed in the construction or repair of an
individual sewage disposal system shall be as established by this Section or an
equivalent for the intended use as specified in the Illinois Private Sewage
Disposal Code, section 905, appendix A, illustration C.
   B.   Building Sewers: Building sewers shall be Schedule 40 PVC or equal,
four inches (4") or greater in diameter.
   C.   Gravity Effluent Lines: Gravity effluent lines shall be SDR 35 PVC or
equal, four inches (4") in diameter.
   D.   Pressure Supply Lines: Pressure supply lines shall be SDR 21 PVC or
equal, and
      1.   LPP Systems: Two inch (2") minimum diameter on low pressure pipe
systems.
      2.   Distribution Boxes: one and one-half inch (11/2") minimum diameter
to distribution boxes.
   E.   Low Pressure Lateral Piping: Low pressure pipe lateral distribution
piping shall be SDR 26 PVC or equal and one and one- fourth inch (11/4")
minimum diameter.
   F.   Gravity Lateral Piping: Gravity lateral distribution piping shall be
corrugated polyethylene ASTM Standard F667-84 or equal and four inch (4")
minimum diameter.
   G.   Appropriate Size And Material: Couplings, connectors and fittings shall
be as appropriate for the size, material and use.
   H.   Pressure Lines Or Low Pressure Pipe Systems: All fittings in pressure
lines or low pressure pipe systems shall be schedule 40 PVC or equal pressure
fittings. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-7: FILL/AGGREGATE:
   A.   Fill Material: Any fill material employed in the construction or repair
of an individual sewage disposal soil absorption system shall be coarse sand.
   B.   Gravel: Any gravel employed in the construction or repair of an
individual sewage disposal system shall be sized between three-fourths inch (3/
4") and one and one-half inches (11/2"), and shall be washed to be essentially
free of dust, sand or other material.
   C.   Barrier Material: Any material employed in the construction or repair
of an individual sewage disposal system to separate gravel from backfill or
cover soil shall be an approved biodegradable material, such as untreated
building paper or an appropriate geotextile. Barrier material for ISD System
Types 4 and 5 shall be an appropriate geotextile only. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-
1996)
12-11-8: BACKFILL MATERIAL:
Any soil material used in backfilling or covering individual sewage disposal
system components or soil absorption areas shall be free of rocks, clods and
extraneous materials, of a suitable quality to support vegetative cover, and
requiring a minimum of landscaping. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-11-9: ITEMS NOT SPECIFIED; OTHER MATERIALS:
Any material employed in the construction or repair of an individual sewage
disposal system which is not specified in this Section shall be approved only
after a review of the proposed usage by the Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 96-O-16,
12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 12
LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-12-1: Authority
12-12-2: Soil Classifiers
12-12-3: Individual Sewage Disposal System Designs
12-12-4: Individual Sewage Disposal System Contractors
12-12-5: Individual Sewage Disposal System Pumpers
12-12-1: AUTHORITY:
The Enforcement Officer shall regulate the evaluation of soils and the design,
construction, and pumping of individual sewage disposal systems in the Village
by requiring any individual who would evaluate soils or design, construct, or
pump an individual sewage disposal system to meet licensing or certification
requirements. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-12-2: SOIL CLASSIFIERS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Any person who would evaluate soils for an
individual sewage disposal system shall be knowledgeable of the methods and
principles of soil classification and experienced in determining the formation,
morphology and description of soils and their applicable characteristics.
   B.   Credentials: The Village shall require soil classifiers to possess
certification by either the Illinois Soil Classifiers Association or the
American Registry of Certified Professionals in Agronomy, Crops, and Soils.
(Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-12-3: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM DESIGNS:
   A.   Professional Engineer: Design of an individual sewage disposal system
shall be by an Illinois licensed professional engineer knowledgeable of the
rules and regulations of the State, the County, the Village and of the general
provisions of the materials incorporated by Appendix A of this Title.
   B.   Installation Contractor: Plans for the repair, replacement or addition
of system components other than soil absorption capacity shall be prepared by
an Illinois licensed private sewage system installation contractor or an
Illinois licensed professional engineer. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-12-4: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Any person who would construct, install, or
repair an individual sewage disposal system shall be knowledgeable of the
construction procedures specified herein, and of the interpretation of plans,
drawings, and specifications relative to the construction of an individual
sewage disposal system and shall be licensed as specified in subsection B of
this Section.
   B.   License: Sewage system installation contractors installing,
constructing or repairing an individual sewage disposal system within the
Village shall possess a valid license issued by the Illinois Department of
Public Health. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-12-5: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPERS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Any person who would clean or pump waste from a
private sewage disposal system or portable toilet or haul or dispose of wastes
removed therefrom shall be knowledgeable of the requirements of Chapter 13 of
this Title and shall be licensed as specified in subsection B of this Section.
   B.   License: Private sewage disposal pumping contractors operating within
the Village shall possess a valid license issued by the Illinois Department of
Public Health. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 13
WASTE HAULERS AND SEPTAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
12-13-1: Minimum Requirements
12-13-2: Land Application Prohibited
12-13-3: Site Management
12-13-4: Equipment
12-13-5: Inspections
12-13-6: Reporting Requirements
12-13-7: Other Requirements
12-13-8: Administrative Procedures And Fees
12-13-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
Domestic septage may be disposed of only by methods established in this
Section:
   A.   Sewage Treatment Facility: Septage may be disposed of at a sewage
treatment plant appropriately licensed to operate by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   B.   Landfill: Septage may be disposed of at a landfill appropriately
permitted to operate and to accept the material by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   C.   Application To Agricultural Land: Septage may be applied to
agricultural land only as specifically established in this Chapter.
   D.   Other Approved Methods: Septage may be disposed of by other methods
subject to the approval of that method by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency and the Illinois Department of Public Health. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-2: LAND APPLICATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   General: Septage shall not be land-applied on any site within the
Village except pursuant to a variation approved by ordinance of the President
and Board of Trustees.
      1.   Permit: Sites approved for land application of septage by variation
ordinance shall also receive a permit from the Enforcement Officer.
      2.   Permit Renewal: Permits issued for septage land application sites
shall expire on December 31 of each year, and must be renewed.
      3.   Permit Suspension: The Enforcement Officer may suspend for good
cause the permit of any septage land application site. Any appeal of such
suspension and any penalty for continued use of a site after permit suspension
shall be established by this Title.
   B.   Approval Conditions: Any site submitted for approval as a septage land
application site by variation ordinance shall meet the standard required for
variations as required by this Title as well as minimum standards as
established by this Section.
      1.   Notification: No site may be approved for septage land application
without a variation approved by ordinance of the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village and the written approval of the Enforcement Officer.
      2.   Limiting Layer: Septage shall not be applied on land having a
limiting layer within four feet (4') of the soil surface.
      3.   Floodplain/Surface Water: Sites proposed for septage land
application shall be above floodplain elevation, and shall be separated from
surface waters and/or wetlands as provided below.
      4.   Slope: Sites proposed for septage land application shall be sloped a
maximum of five percent (5%).
      5.   Separation Requirements: Any areas designated for septage land
application shall be separated as established by this subsection.
         a.   Water Wells: Application area shall be a minimum of three hundred
feet (300') from any water well.
         b.   Public Roads: Application areas shall be a minimum of one hundred
feet (100') from any public road right of way.
         c.   Residential, Commercial Or Industrial Areas: Application areas
shall be a minimum of one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') from areas
regularly populated or utilized by humans.
         d.   Surface Waters: Application areas shall be a minimum of two
hundred feet (200') from any surface water, wetland, drainage ditch, or surface
inlet to subsurface drains. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-3: SITE MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Site Posted: Any septage land application site shall be appropriately
posted when there is potential for public access.
   B.   Ponding: Septage shall not be applied where water is ponded in the land
application area.
   C.   Pooling: Septage shall be evenly spread over the application areas to
prevent pooling.
   D.   Rainfall: Septage shall not be applied to a site which has been
saturated by rainfall during the twenty four (24) hour period preceding the
intended application time.
   E.   Application Rates: The cumulation volume of septage applied per year
shall not exceed the nitrogen requirements of the cover crop.
      1.   Cover Crop: A cover crop must be established on land application
sites prior to the first application of septage, even where the crop is not
intended for harvest.
   F.   Vegetation Restricted: The use of a septage application site for
vegetation shall be restricted.
      1.   Vegetables And Fruits: The cultivation of root vegetables or other
low-growing fruits or vegetables on septage disposal sites is prohibited.
      2.   Pasture: Pasture utilized for septage application shall be
restricted from harvest or animal grazing for a minimum of thirty (30) days
following septage application.
   G.   Spillage: Septage shall be transported and land-applied in such a
manner as to prevent spillage of wastes or the deposition of wastes or mud onto
any public road or right of way.
   H.   Soil Incorporation: When conditions exist at a septage land application
site which are determined by the Enforcement Officer to be a nuisance, septage
shall be appropriately incorporated into the soil after application.
   I.   Soil Injection And Tillage: If septage is injected or tilled into the
soil throughout the growing season as a method of pathogen control, application
must be done on a rotational basis within the site to maintain vegetative
growth. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-4: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   General: Any vehicle used for the collection and transportation of
septage shall be properly equipped and maintained as established by this
Section.
   B.   Container: Vehicle tanks shall be completely enclosed and leak-free.
   C.   Pump: Septage pumps shall be vacuum or self-priming and shall be leak-
free.
   D.   Hoses: Septage hoses shall be leak-free, and stored in such a manner
that contamination will not create a health risk or nuisance.
   E.   Discharge Nozzle: Septage tank discharge nozzles shall be located in
such a manner that discharging waste does not flow or drip onto the vehicle,
and shall be capped when not in use.
   F.   Equipment Condition: All equipment utilized in the pumping, storage,
hauling and land application of septage shall be kept reasonably clean and in
good working condition.
   G.   Vehicle Identification: The name and address of the septage hauling
business shall be displayed in eight inch (8") letters on both sides of any
septage hauling vehicle. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Land Application Sites: The Enforcement Officer shall inspect any site
utilized for the land application of septage for compliance with this Chapter
not less often than two (2) times per year.
   B.   Vehicles And Equipment: The Enforcement Officer shall inspect any
vehicle utilized for the pumping and hauling of septage for compliance with
this Chapter not less often than once per year.
   C.   Enforcement: The Enforcement Officer may issue notices and orders
requiring action as may be necessary to assure compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-6: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
On a quarterly basis, licensed pumpers land-applying septage must report the
following information:
   A.   Volume of septage land-applied each month during the quarter.
   B.   Acreage treated each month during the quarter.
   C.   Site map showing area of application for each month during the quarter.
   D.   Signature. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-7: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   County, State And Federal Regulations: The requirements established by
this Chapter shall in no way preclude compliance with any applicable County,
State or Federal regulation.
   B.   Conflict: Whenever the provisions of this Chapter conflict with any of
the provisions of any other applicable ordinance, regulation or rule, the most
stringent requirement shall be applicable. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-13-8: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND FEES:
Administrative procedure and fees relative to this Chapter shall be in
accordance with Chapter 16 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 14
MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
12-14-1: Agreement
12-14-2: Aerobic Unit
12-14-3: Surface Discharge
12-14-4: Holding Tanks
12-14-5: Contingency Systems
12-14-6: Nonconforming/Experimental Systems
12-14-7: Disclosure
12-14-8: Reporting
12-14-9: Procedures
12-14-1: AGREEMENT:
The Enforcement Officer shall require that the owner of record of an individual
sewage disposal system initiate and keep in force an agreement for inspection
and maintenance of the individual sewage disposal system in accordance with
this Chapter, and that the owner take action to repair, replace, modify, or
maintain an individual sewage disposal system when necessary to ensure its
proper operation. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-2: AEROBIC UNIT:
   A.   Agreement: The owner of record of any individual sewage disposal system
which employs an aerobic unit for pretreatment of wastewater shall initiate and
keep in force an agreement for inspection and maintenance of the aerobic unit
with an authorized representative of the manufacturer.
   B.   Inspections: The agreement shall provide for inspections of the aerobic
unit a minimum of two (2) times per year, and shall provide for the repair,
replacement, adjustment or modification of the aerobic unit and for additional
inspections as are necessary to ensure the proper operation of the unit. (Ord.
96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-3: SURFACE DISCHARGE:
   A.   Agreement: The owner of record of any system which is approved pursuant
to subsection 12-8-4C of this Title to discharge effluent to the surface shall
initiate and keep in force an agreement for inspection and maintenance of the
system as required in this Section:
      1.   Aerobic Unit: Any surface discharging system which employs an
aerobic unit shall be maintained in accordance with Section
12-14-2 of this Chapter and further as specified in this Section.
      2.   System Inspection: Any surface discharging system which does not
employ an aerobic unit shall be covered by an agreement with a licensed private
sewage system installation contractor which shall provide for inspection of the
system a minimum of two (2) times per year, and shall provide for the repairs,
replacement, adjustment or modification to the system as is necessary to ensure
proper operation.
      3.   Effluent Discharge: Any surface discharging system shall have, as a
provision of the required maintenance agreement, its effluent discharge sampled
a minimum of two (2) times per year. Samples shall be analyzed in accordance
with "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" for
compliance to the following standards:
         a.   BOD5 less than 30 mg/l.
         b.   Total suspended solids less than 30 mg/l.
         c.   Fecal coliform less than 400 organism/100 ml.
         d.   No detectable odor or floating debris.
         e.   Chlorine residual. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-4: HOLDING TANKS:
   A.   Agreement: The owner of record of any holding tank which is approved
shall initiate and keep in force an agreement for inspection and maintenance of
the holding tank with a licensed private sewage disposal system pumping
contractor. The agreement shall provide for the continuous pumping of
wastewater from the holding tank as is necessary, and for the repair,
replacement, adjustment or modification of the holding tank or associated
appurtenances as is necessary to ensure the proper operation of the unit. (Ord.
96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-5: CONTINGENCY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Agreement: The owner of record of any contingency system approved
pursuant to subsection 12-8-3A of this Title shall initiate and keep in force
an agreement for inspection and maintenance of the system with a licensed
private sewage system installation contractor. The agreement shall provide for
inspection of the system and the alternation of soil absorption systems a
minimum of one time per year, and shall provide for the repair, replacement,
adjustment or modification of the system as is necessary to ensure proper
operation. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-6: NONCONFORMING/EXPERIMENTAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Agreement: The owner of record of any nonconforming or experimental
system approved pursuant to Section
12-5-5 or subsection 12-8-4C of this Title, respectively, shall initiate and
keep in force an agreement for the inspection and maintenance of the system as
specifically determined by the Enforcement Officer conditional to the approval.
(Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-7: DISCLOSURE:
   A.   Agreement: Any requirement for a maintenance agreement, as specified by
this Section or by any variation or decision on appeal, shall be recorded with
the Lake County Recorder of Deeds as a covenant agreement between the Village
and the owner of record of the individual sewage disposal system. (Ord. 96-O-
16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-8: REPORTING:
   A.   Requirements: Maintenance activities conducted on individual sewage
disposal systems subject to the requirements of this Section shall be reported
as outlined in this Section.
   B.   Maintenance Or Sampling Activity: The owner of record of an individual
sewage disposal system subject to the maintenance requirements specified in
this Section shall submit to the Enforcement Officer a report of all required
maintenance or sampling activity established herein or by any other agreement
conditional to the initial approval, the repair, or the use of the individual
sewage disposal system.
      1.   Reports: Reports shall be submitted in a timely fashion at intervals
established by this Section, excepting that reports relative to pumping holding
tanks shall be submitted not less than every three (3) months.
   C.   Additional Reports: Maintenance contractors shall submit to the
Enforcement Officer additional reports as follows:
      1.   Maintenance Activity: A report of maintenance activity which
includes the repair, replacement, modification, or adjustment of an individual
sewage disposal system or component where necessary to ensure its proper
operation.
      2.   Malfunction: A report of an observed malfunction of an individual
sewage disposal system contracted for maintenance where the malfunction allows
effluent which is or may be inadequately treated to discharge to the ground
surface or to a surface water.
      3.   Contract Cancellation Or Nonrenewal: A report of a cancellation or
failure to renew an established maintenance contract, or a refusal of an owner
of an individual sewage disposal system to undertake necessary repair,
replacement, modification, or adjustment to the system.
      4.   Pumping Activity: A report of each pumping of a permanent or
temporary holding tank.
   D.   Reporting Requirements: Reports shall be submitted in a timely fashion,
excepting that a report of a discharge of inadequately treated effluent to the
ground surface or a surface water shall be reported within twenty four (24)
hours.
      1.   Form Specifications: Any report submitted to the Enforcement Officer
as required by this Section shall include, as a minimum, the name of the owner
of record, a complete mailing address, a complete legal description, the
permanent index number (PIN) and the individual sewage disposal system permit
number. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-14-9: PROCEDURES:
Administrative procedure and fees relative to this Section shall be in
accordance with Chapter 16 of this Title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 15
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-15-1: Violations (Rep. by Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-15-2: Notice Of Violation
12-15-3: Emergencies
12-15-4: Revocation Of Approval
12-15-5: Variances
12-15-6: Hearings On Variations And Appeals
12-15-7: Application After Revocation
12-15-1: VIOLATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-15-2: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Requirements: Whenever the enforcement officer determines that there
are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this title, the owner or beneficial owner of the property, the
occupant(s) of the premises, and/or the person to whom the permit was issued,
shall be notified of such alleged violation, as herein provided. Such notice
shall:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for the issuance of the notice.
      3.   Allow reasonable time as determined by the enforcement officer for
the performance of any act it requires.
      4.   Be served upon the owner, operator, or permit holder as the case may
require; provided that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner, operator or permit holder when a copy thereof
has been sent by certified or registered mail to his last known address; or,
when he has been served with such notice by any other method authorized by the
laws of the state; and
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to effect
compliance with this title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-15-3: EMERGENCIES:
Whenever an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the
public safety or health, the enforcement officer may, without any
administrative procedure and without notice of hearing, seek a temporary
restraining order or an injunction to require that such action be taken as may
be necessary to meet the emergency or to obtain compliance with this title.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, such order shall be
effective immediately. When such emergency conditions are abated, the
enforcement officer may request the court to enter an order dissolving the
temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-
1996)
12-15-4: REVOCATION OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Site Conditions: Whenever the condition of a site approved for an
individual sewage disposal system has changed or any information considered in
the approval of an individual sewage disposal system was omitted or erroneous,
the enforcement officer may revoke the approval of that site and of any
construction permit issued pursuant to the approval.
   B.   Revocation Notice: Revocation of approval shall be in writing, posted
at the site and mailed to the owner, professional engineer, and licensed
contractor, as applicable, by certified or registered mail. The notice shall
contain information as follows:
      1.   A statement that work on the individual sewage disposal system is
prohibited.
      2.   An explanation of the reason for the revocation of approval.
      3.   An outline of action required toward the reinstatement of the
approval, if determined.
      4.   An explanation of rights and procedures for a hearing on an appeal
as provided in sections
12-15-6 and
12-15-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Request For Hearing: Unless the enforcement officer receives a request
for a hearing, the revocation of approval shall be considered as final. (Ord.
96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-15-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variance Requests: Whenever approval as required by this title is
denied by the enforcement officer, that person denied approval may request a
variance as follows:
      1.   Written Requests: Variance requests shall be in writing and shall
detail those conditions where compliance is impossible or impractical.
      2.   Supporting Data: Variance requests shall include pertinent data to
support the requested waiver of the requirements of this title as being
consistent with the purpose of this title to protect and provide for the
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the village and of other
affected communities.
      3.   Variations: Variations, including the approval of contingency
systems as provided by chapter 8 of this title, shall only be granted by the
village board by ordinance, after a hearing as provided in section
12-15-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-15-6: HEARINGS ON VARIATIONS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Hearings: Any person who wishes to seek a variation from a specific
provision of this title or any person affected or aggrieved by any order,
notice or decision issued by the enforcement officer in connection with the
enforcement of any provision of this title may file with the village president
a written request for a hearing before the village board. The village board
shall hold a hearing within thirty (30) days from the date on which the written
request was filed. The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time
and place of the hearing not less than five (5) days prior to the date on which
the hearing is to be held. If, as a result of the hearing, the village board
finds that strict compliance with the order, notice, decision, or a specific
provision or provisions of this title would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order, notice, decision,
or varying the application of a specific provision of this title, the village
board may modify or withdraw the order, or notice, or decision, or grant a
variation by ordinance, as the case may be, and, as a condition for such action
may, where it deems it necessary, make requirements which are in addition to
those prescribed in this title for the purpose of properly protecting the
public health. The village board shall render a decision within thirty (30)
days after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and placed
on file in the office of the village administrator as a matter of public
record.
   B.   Fee: A fee for a hearing on a variation or an appeal as specified from
time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code shall be submitted. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-15-7: APPLICATION AFTER REVOCATION:
Whenever the revocation of the approval of an individual sewage disposal system
is final, any future consideration for approval shall be in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 16
PROCEDURES AND FEES
SECTION:
12-16-1: General
12-16-2: Individual Sewage Disposal Systems
12-16-3: Alterations And Additions
12-16-4: New Subdivisions
12-16-5: Soil Evaluations
12-16-6: Construction Permit
12-16-7: Other Permits And Services
12-16-8: Fee Schedule
12-16-1: GENERAL:
Procedures for the consideration of approval of proposed individual sewage
disposal systems, subdivisions, and alteration, for the conducting of soil
evaluations, for the consideration of variances, for hearings, for construction
permits, and for special maintenance and operational permits as detailed in
this title. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-16-2: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Submission Of Plans: Any plan submitted for approval for the
construction or repair of an individual sewage disposal system shall be
submitted as outlined in this section.
      1.   Application: An application for approval shall be completed.
      2.   Fee: A fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
      3.   Required Information: Six (6) copies of a plan prepared in
accordance with section
12-9-2 or
12-9-3 of this title shall be submitted with any supplemental information as
required by section
12-9-4 of this title.
   B.   Plan Review: Upon receipt of an application, plans properly submitted
for approval, and receipt of the appropriate fee, the enforcement officer shall
review the application and plan for compliance with this title, and shall
approve or refuse to approve the application within fifteen (15) working days.
   C.   Notification Of Nonapproval: The enforcement officer shall notify any
applicant whose application is not approved of the reason(s) preventing the
approval and of any technical or administrative solution remaining.
   D.   Plan Approval Period: A plan approved for the construction of a new
individual sewage disposal system shall be valid for a period of twenty four
(24) months from the date of approval. A plan approved for the repair or
expansion of an existing sewage disposal system shall be valid for a period of
twelve (12) months from the date of approval. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-16-3: ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS:
   A.   General: Any proposal to alter, expand, remodel, or change usage of any
dwelling or establishment utilizing an existing individual sewage disposal
system submitted for approval in accordance with section
12-5-4 of this title shall be submitted as follows:
      1.   Increased Water Usage/Square Footage Increase Greater Than Fifty
Percent: Proposals which may increase water usage, which increase the square
footage of a dwelling or establishment by more than fifty percent (50%), or
which involve a change of use for a commercial establishment projecting an
increase in water usage shall be submitted and processed in accordance with
subsection 12-5-3A and section
12-9-2 of this title.
      2.   No Water Usage Increase/Square Footage Increase Less Than Fifty
Percent: Proposals which may not increase water usage or do not increase the
square footage of a dwelling by more than fifty percent (50%) shall be
submitted as follows:
         a.   Application: An application for approval shall be submitted.
         b.   Fees: A fee in accordance with section
12-16-8 of this chapter shall be submitted.
         c.   Required Information: Two (2) copies of a plan depicting the
existing site conditions, including the individual sewage disposal system,
water well, existing floor plan and the proposed alteration or addition shall
be submitted.
   B.   Plan Review: Upon receipt of an application, plans properly submitted
for approval, and receipt of the appropriate fee, the enforcement officer shall
review the application and plan for compliance with this title, and shall
approve or refuse to approve the application within fifteen (15) working days.
   C.   Notification Of Nonapproval: The enforcement officer shall notify any
applicant whose application is not approved of the reason(s) preventing the
approval and of any technical or administrative solution remaining.
   D.   Plan Approval Period: A plan approved for the construction or repair of
an individual sewage disposal system shall be valid for a period of twenty four
(24) months from the date of approval. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-16-4: NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: Any proposal for approval of a new subdivision in accordance
with section
12-5-6 of this title shall be submitted as follows:
      1.   Application: An application for approval shall be completed.
      2.   Fee: A fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code shall be submitted.
      3.   Plat: A preliminary plat or plan in accordance with section
12-9-5 of this title shall be submitted.
      4.   Additional Fees: Additional fees in accordance with other provisions
of this code and other ordinances of the village may be required.
   B.   Plan Review: The enforcement officer shall review plans for new
subdivisions within a reasonable time from the submittal, and shall correspond
with the applicant as necessary to effect changes toward compliance with this
title. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-16-5: SOIL EVALUATIONS:
   A.   General: Any proposal requesting a soil evaluation in accordance with
subsection 12-6-1C of this title shall be submitted as follows:
      1.   Application: An application for a soil evaluation shall be
completed.
      2.   Fee: A fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code shall be submitted.
   B.   Appointment: The enforcement officer shall schedule the date and time
of the soil evaluation within a period not to exceed fifteen (15) working days.
When weather conditions or frost greater than six inches (6") do not allow for
accurate soil descriptions, the soil test shall be postponed to allow for
acceptable conditions.
   C.   Soil Report: A report of the soil evaluation shall be mailed to the
applicant. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-16-6: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
   A.   General: Any request for a permit to construct an individual sewage
disposal system submitted in accordance with subsection 12-10-2A of this title
shall be submitted.
   B.   Application: An application for a construction permit shall be
completed and submitted.
   C.   Fee: A fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code shall be submitted.
   D.   Revised Plan: A revision of the approved plan, if applicable, depicting
any changes to the plan or site shall be submitted.
   E.   Permit Review: Upon receipt of an application for a construction permit
and the appropriate fee, the enforcement officer shall review the application
and construction plan for compliance with this title and for substantial
agreement with the approved plan.
   F.   Notification Process: The enforcement officer shall issue or decline to
issue a construction permit within five (5) working days, and shall notify any
applicant whose permit is refused of the reason(s) preventing approval and of
any technical or administrative solution remaining.
   G.   Permit Period: The construction permit shall be valid for a period of
ninety (90) days from the date of approval. The enforcement officer may,
without additional fee, extend the construction permit for thirty (30) days
provided that such extension shall apply only to the licensed septic contractor
to whom the permit was originally issued. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
12-16-7: OTHER PERMITS AND SERVICES:
   A.   Procedural/Fee Requirements: The village enforcement officer shall
charge fees in accordance with section
12-16-8 of this chapter for other permits and services, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Nonconforming Systems: Review for approval of nonconforming systems
pursuant to subsection 12-5-5B of this title.
      2.   Site Drainage/Other Monitoring: Site visits to monitor site drainage
or for other monitoring.
      3.   Septage Disposal Sites: Site inspection of septage disposal sites if
a variation for same is granted.
      4.   Contingency Systems: Permits to use contingency systems, approved
pursuant to chapter 8 of this title.
      5.   Mandatory Maintenance Programs: Administration of mandatory
maintenance programs.
      6.   Soil Evaluation Review: Review of soil evaluations conducted by
certified soil classifiers. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-16-8: FEE SCHEDULE:
Fees as required by this title and this chapter shall be as specified from time
to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 17
RELIEF FROM PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
12-17-1: Personal Liability
12-17-1: PERSONAL LIABILITY:
The Enforcement Officer charged with the enforcement of this Title, while
acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby be liable personally, and is
hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against any officer or
employee because of an act performed by the Enforcement Officer in the lawful
discharge of duties and under the provisions of this Title shall be defended by
the legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceeding, except as may be otherwise required by statute. The Enforcement
Officer shall not be liable for costs in any action, suit, or proceedings that
may be instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this Title; any officer of
the Village shall be free from liability for acts performed under any of its
provisions or by reason of any act or omission in the performance of official
duties in connection therewith. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 18
INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT
SECTION:
12-18-1: Minimum Requirements
12-18-2: State And Local Requirements
12-18-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of public health, safety and general welfare. Whenever a
provision, whether set forth in this Title or any other applicable provisions
of law, imposes overlapping or contradictory regulations or contains
restrictions covering similar subject matter, the provision which imposes
higher standards or requirements for the promotion of public health and safety
of the people of the Village shall prevail. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
12-18-2: STATE AND LOCAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance: Compliance with this Title does not release applicant from
compliance with applicable State or County local ordinances or regulations
governing individual sewage disposal systems. (Ord. 96-O-16, 12-17-1996)
TITLE 13
WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL
SECTION:
13-1-1: Water And Sewer Agreement
13-1-2: Mandatory Use Of Service
13-1-3: Definitions
13-1-4: Application For Service
13-1-5: Superintendent; Appointment And Duties
13-1-6: Conflicting Laws
13-1-1: WATER AND SEWER AGREEMENT:
Lake Barrington business and industrial park sanitary sewer system ("the LBBIP
sanitary sewer system") and the Lake Barrington business and industrial park
water system ("the LBBIP water system") shall be governed by the provisions of
this title and the intergovernmental agreement for wastewater treatment
services by and between the village of Fox River Grove and the village of Lake
Barrington. In case of conflict the terms of the intergovernmental agreement
shall prevail. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-1-2: MANDATORY USE OF SERVICE:
   A.   All buildings intended or used for human habitation or occupancy and
all uses within the village's special service area number three must use and be
connected to the LBBIP ("Lake Barrington Business and Industrial Park") water
system and the LBBIP sanitary sewer system. The boundary limits of village of
Lake Barrington special service area number three are defined in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   The owner and/or occupant of buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
of Lake Barrington's special service area number three as described above
shall, at his, her or its expense, connect such buildings and properties to the
LBBIP water system and to the LBBIP sanitary sewer system in accordance with
the provisions of this title, within sixty (60) days after the date official
notice to do so is mailed to them via regular mail and via certified mail,
return receipt requested.
   C.   Sixty (60) days after the date official notice has been given to the
owner and/or occupant of the premises to connect to the LBBIP water system and
LBBIP sanitary sewer system, it shall be unlawful to utilize any individual
sewage disposal system or any well, except any village wells and except any
well utilized by the village for purposes of monitoring the aquifer.
   D.   All individual wells, except any village wells and except any well
utilized by the village for purposes of monitoring the aquifer, and all
individual septic systems shall be properly abandoned within sixty (60) days
after said date on which said official notice has been given to the owner and/
or occupant. Such abandonment shall be in compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations, and ordinances of those governmental jurisdictions having
authority over same. (Ord. 2002-O-12, 8-6-2002)
13-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the
following terms used in this title shall be as follows:
A: As in cyanide-A, means amenable to alkaline chlorination.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, American Water Works Association, American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation or their
equivalent.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF USER: A. Principal executive officer of at least
the level of vice president, if the user is a corporation;
   B.   General partner or proprietor, if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;
   C.   Duly authorized representative of the individual designated above. A
person is a duly authorized representative only if the authorization is made in
writing to the Village by a person described above.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the LBBIP water system. These auxiliary waters may include water
from another purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such
as wells, lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may
be polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the Village does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of the public water supply system or other potable water
system from any source other than the intended source of the potable water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system.
BASELINE MONITORING REPORT: The report required by 40 CFR section 403.12(b)
(1–7).
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen used in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade
(20°C), determined by standard laboratory test procedures and expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant (standard potassium dichromate solution) under standard laboratory,
procedures, as described in standard methods.
COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA: The formula as found in 40 CFR section 403.6(e).
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A building or building complex which contains stores,
offices, recreational uses, or businesses engaged in trade, sales, and
services.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: The biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand,
suspended solids, fecal coliform bacteria and fats, oil or grease.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A sample of wastewater based on a flow proportional or time
proportional method.
CONSISTENT POTW TREATMENT WORKS REMOVAL, POLLUTANT REMOVAL, OR REMOVAL: The
reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature or
concentration of a pollutant in the influent of the POTW to a less incompatible
or less concentrated state in the effluent. Consistent POTW removal efficiency
shall be the difference between the average concentration of the pollutant in
the influent of the treatment plant and the average concentration of the
pollutant in the effluent of the treatment plant divided by the average
concentration of pollutant in the influent.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to the public water supply
system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINANT: Any solid, liquid, or gaseous matter, any odor or any form of
energy which, when present in the public water supply system, may cause the
water to degrade so that the applicable water quality standards are not met or
physical illness or injury to persons consuming the water could result.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure specifically designed and constructed for sampling
and metering industrial wastes discharged to a public sewer.
COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use, such as air conditioning,
cooling, or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR OR CCCDI: A person who has
successfully completed IEPA sponsored training and certification to install and
test backflow devices.
DIRECTOR: The director of the IEPA.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under or meeting the requirements of ASSE Standard
1015. A double check valve assembly must include tight shut-off valves located
at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing the water
tightness of each check valve.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The Superintendent for the Village of Lake Barrington
shall serve as the enforcement officer for this Title of the Municipal Code.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge which is not a new source.
FATS, OIL OR GREASE: Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils
and any other material that is extracted by trichlorotrifluoroethane solvent.
FECAL COLIFORM: Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of man
and animals whose presence in water is an indicator of pollution.
FEDERAL ACT OR ACT: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et
seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of
1972 (Public Law 92-500 and Public Law 93-243) and the Clean Water Act of 1977
(Public Law 95-217).
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP OR AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the
free atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of
the receptacle. Flexible couplings or spring hoses do not constitute an air
gap.
FLOW: The volume of wastewater per unit of time.
FOX RIVER GROVE: The village of Fox River Grove, the owner and operator of the
POTW.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that can be expected to result in death or
significant injury, illness or physical impairment.
IEPA: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: All pollutants other than compatible pollutants, as
defined in this Section.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the POTW
from any nondomestic source, regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Federal Act.
INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A building or building complex which houses
mechanical, trade and/or manufacturing activities.
INDUSTRIAL USER: For the purpose of user charges, industrial users shall
include manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or chemical
transformation of materials or substances into other products. These activities
occur in establishments usually described as plants, factories or mills, and
characteristically use power-driven machines and material-handling equipment.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The wastewater discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from
any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business establishment or process,
or from the development, recovery or processing of any natural resource other
than human wastes, or wastewater from sanitary conveniences.
INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT: A building or building complex which houses
activities for social, health, educational, or religious purposes such as
hospitals, sanitariums, correctional facilities, schools, churches, or
charitable organizations or agencies.
INTERFERENCE: An inhibition or disruption of the POTW, its treatment processes
or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal which is a cause of or
significantly contributes to either a violation of any requirements of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or to the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): section 405
of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including title
II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA) and including State regulations contained in any state sludge management
plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act and the
Toxic Substances Control Act.
An industrial user significantly contributes to such a permit violation or
prevention of sludge use or disposal in accordance with the above cited
authorities whenever such user:
   A.   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by a
permit for the POTW or by Federal, State or local law;
   B.   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature or
constituents from the user's average discharge;
   C.   Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would result in a POTW permit violation or
prevent sewage sludge use or disposal in accordance with the above cited
authorities as they apply to the selected method of sludge management of Fox
River Grove's POTW.
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT: The intergovernmental agreement for wastewater
treatment services by and between the village of Fox River Grove and the
Village of Lake Barrington, as amended from time to time.
LBBIP SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: The Lake Barrington Business and Industrial Park
Sanitary Sewer System as described in the intergovernmental agreement for
wastewater treatment services by and between the village of Fox River Grove and
the Village of Lake Barrington, as amended from time to time. (Also referred to
as the "public sanitary sewer system".)
LBBIP SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM AND WATER SYSTEM OPERATIONAL FUND: The principal
account designation for all revenue received from the operation of LBBIP
sanitary sewer system and from the operation of the LBBIP water system or
waterworks of the Village of Lake Barrington Special Service Area Number Three.
LBBIP WATER SYSTEM: Also referred to as the "waterworks" or as the "Village's
water system" consisting of all mains, pipes and structures through which water
is obtained and distributed to the public within the LBBIP by the Village,
including wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping stations,
treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or
severally, actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing
water for drinking.
LOCAL LAW: The applicable ordinances of the Village of Lake Barrington and the
ordinances of the village of Fox River Grove as made applicable by the
intergovernmental agreement, as amended from time to time.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
MAY: "May" means permissive.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document to regulate the discharge of
pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Act.
NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any pretreatment standard
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants which may be discharged
to a POTW by industrial users in specific industrial subcategories as
established in regulations promulgated from time to time by the USEPA in 40 CFR
chapter I, subchapter N.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water.
NEW SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the Federal Act which will be applicable to such source, if such standards
are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the applicable State law and regulations.
POTW: The publicly owned treatment works of the village of Fox River Grove.
POTW TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW of the village of Fox River
Grove which is designed to provide treatment (including recycling and
reclamation) of the municipal sewage and industrial waste.
PASS-THROUGH: The discharge of pollutants through the POTW into navigable
waters in quantities or concentrations which are a cause of or significantly
contribute to a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit
(including an increase in magnitude or duration of a violation). An industrial
user significantly contributes to such permit violation where it:
   A.   Discharges a daily pollutant loading in excess of that allowed by
permit with the POTW or by Federal, State or local law;
   B.   Discharges wastewater which substantially differs in nature and
constituents from the user's average discharge;
   C.   Knows or has reason to know that its discharge, alone or in conjunction
with discharges from other sources, would result in a permit violation;
   D.   Knows or has reason to know that the POTW is, for any reason, violating
its final effluent limitations in its permit and that such industrial user's
discharge, either alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
increases the magnitude or duration of the POTW's violations.
PERMITTED WASTEWATER HAULER VEHICLE: A vehicle used for hauling wastewater,
which has been granted a permit under the requirements of this Chapter and has
been issued all other permits required under applicable Federal, State and
local laws, rules and regulations.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, public or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
expressed in gram molecular weight (moles) per liter.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from a main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt or industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water or any other material defined as a pollutant or equivalent under any
applicable Federal or State law, rule or regulation.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the potability of the water.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other wastes on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of applicable State law and
regulations for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of a water supply line beyond its termination point.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before discharge into
the public sewer.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: Any specified pollutant, prohibitive discharge
standards, as set forth in section 300.105 of the Federal Act; specific
limitations on discharge, as set forth in section 300.110 of the Federal Act;
the State of Illinois Pretreatment Standards or the applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, whichever standard is most stringent.
PROCESS FLUIDS: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or a system hazard if introduced into the
public or a consumer's potable water system. Process fluids include, but are
not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2")
(1.27 cm) in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights of connection and use, and is operated, maintained and controlled by the
Village of Lake Barrington, by the village of Fox River Grove, or other public
agency.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public within the LBBIP by the Village,
including wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping stations,
treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or
severally, actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing
water for drinking or general domestic use. See also definition of LBBIP Water
System.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works, as defined by section
212 of the Federal Act, owned by the village of Fox River Grove and the LBBIP
sanitary sewer system owned by the Village of Lake Barrington. This definition
includes any devices and systems used in the collection, transmission, storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant,
regardless of ownership, but does not include sewers, pipes and other
conveyances not connected to the POTW treatment plant.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under or meeting the requirements of ASSE
Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the
pressure between these two (2) checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by
discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between
the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit must include
tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the device, and each
device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for purchasing and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewerage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER EQUIVALENT: A term used as a basis of billing for sewage
collection and treatment service which is equivalent to a single-family
residential user with an average sewage load of two and one-half (21/2) times
that of a "population equivalent". The residential customer equivalent of
residential buildings having two (2) or more dwelling units shall be the total
number of dwelling units.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage and polluted industrial wastes and
to which storm water, surface drainage, ground water or unpolluted wastewater
are not intentionally admitted.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SEWAGE: A combination of the wastewater from residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional buildings together with such ground water
infiltration and surface water inflow that may be in the sanitary sewers.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: An arrangement of devices, structures and processes for
the treating and disposing of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other wastewater,
including storm water, surface water and ground water drainage.
SEWER USER SERVICE CHARGE: The total amount to be paid each billing period by
public sewer users including the basic user charge, the debt service charge,
and a surcharge, if applicable.
SEWERAGE WORKS: All facilities owned by the Village or by the village of Fox
River Grove for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and
industrial wastes.
SHALL: "Shall" means mandatory.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Shall apply to:
   A.   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards; and
   B.   Any other industrial user that:
      1.   Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater calculated on a weekly basis;
      2.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
treatment plant; or
      3.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act, or is found by the
permit issuance authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit
to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, for
adversely affecting the POTW's operation or upon the quality of effluent from
the treatment works or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION: A violation of Chapter 6 of this Title which remains
uncorrected forty five (45) days after notification of such noncompliance;
which is part of a pattern of noncompliance over a twelve (12) month period;
which involves failure to accurately report noncompliance; or which resulted in
the POTW exercising its emergency authority under section 500.115, 500.120, or
500.130 of the Federal Act.
SLUDGE: The settleable solids separated from the liquids during the wastewater
treatment processes.
SLUG: Any discharge of sewage, industrial waste or other wastewater which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition of
"Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water
Works Association and the Water Environment Federation, and any other
procedures recognized by the USEPA and IEPA.
STATE ACT: The Illinois Environmental Protection Act, effective July 1, 1970 1
.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer that conveys storm water runoff and surface
water drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: That portion of precipitation which is not absorbed into
the ground and which is drained from the ground surface to a natural outlet or
watercourse.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of Water and Sewers of the Village or his or
her duly authorized deputy or representative. In the absence of any
specifically appointed superintendent, the Village Administrator shall serve in
this capacity and, in those circumstances, shall have all the authority and
duties of this office.
SUPERINTENDENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING: The Building Commissioner of the Village
or his or her duly authorized deputy or representative.
SURCHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period by certain public sewer
users.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension of water, sewage, industrial wastes or other wastewaters, the
quantity of which is determined by standard laboratory filtering test
procedures and referred to as nonfilterable residue expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
T: As in cyanide-T, means total.
TOTAL SOLIDS: The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS: The summation of all quantified values greater than one-
hundredth milligram per liter for the toxic organics, as specified in the
applicable regulation.
USEPA: United States Environmental Protection Agency.
UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER: Wastewater that would not cause any violation of water
quality standards of the water pollution regulations of the Federal Government
or Illinois when discharged to a natural outlet or watercourse.
UPSET: An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the industrial user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
USER: Any user of the sewerage works. Each dwelling unit of a residential
building having two (2) or more dwelling units shall be considered a separate
and individual user.
USER CLASS: The type of user either residential or commercial (nonindustrial)
or industrial as defined herein.
VILLAGE: The Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE OF LAKE BARRINGTON SPECIAL SERVICE AREA NUMBER THREE: All that land and
territories with said special service as established by the Village of Lake
Barrington, and as amended from time to time, which is presently legally
described as follows:
Commencing at the Southwest corner of Robert Bartlett's Northwest Barrington
Industrial Subdivision, being a subdivision in the East Half of the Southwest
Quarter of Section 21, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal
Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded September 10, 1965 as Document
No. 1276683 in Book 43 of Plats, Page 5, Lake County, Illinois; then North on
the West line of said Robert Bartlett's Northwest Barrington Industrial
Subdivision to the North line of said subdivision, thence Easterly and
Southeasterly along the North and Northeast lines of said Robert Bartlett's
Northwest Barrington Industrial Subdivision to the Northeast corner of said
Robert Bartlett's Northwest Industrial Subdivision (said corner also being the
Northeast corner of Lot 10 in said Robert Bartlett's Northwest Industrial
Subdivision); thence South on the East line of said Robert Bartlett's Northwest
Industrial Subdivision to the South line of the following described parcel:
That part of the South 1/2 of Section 21, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of
the Third Principal Meridian, described as follows:
Commencing at a point in the center line of Kelsey Road 596.28 feet
Northeasterly from its intersection with the Northeasterly line of the right-
of-way of State Highway commonly known as Northwest Highway, said line being
122 feet Northeasterly of and parallel to the center line of the Northeast
track of the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad; thence Northwesterly on a line
drawn at right angles to the center line of Kelsey Road, a distance of 494.2
feet to a line drawn from a point in the center line of Kelsey Road, 1127.4
feet Southwesterly of its intersection with the North line of the Southeast 1/
4 of said Section 21 to a point on the West line of the Southeast 1/4 of the
Southwest 1/4 of said Section 21, which is 163.8 feet North of the South line
of said Southwest 1/4; thence Northeasterly on the last described line 1076.46
feet, more or less, to said point on the center line of Kelsey Road 1127.4 feet
Southwesterly of its intersection with the North line of the Southeast 1/4 of
said Section 21; thence Southwesterly on the center line of Kelsey Road 956.32
feet to the point of beginning, in Lake County, Illinois. (Robertson, P.I.N.
13-21-300-010)
Thence Southeasterly on said South line of the aforesaid parcel and on said
South line extended Southeasterly, to the Easterly right of way line of Kelsey
Road; thence North along said Easterly right of way line of Kelsey Road to its
intersection with a line being the North right of way line of Pepper Road as
extended Westerly, said line also being a line 33 feet North of the center line
of said road as extended Westerly; thence Easterly along the Northerly right of
way line of said Pepper Road, as extended, to the West line of the following
described parcel:
The North Three-Quarters of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
Section 21 (except the South 10 rods thereof) in Township 43 North, Range 9,
East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Lake County, Illinois; (Damien, P.I.N.
13-21-406-001 through 013)
Thence Northerly along the West line of the aforesaid parcel to the North line
of aforesaid parcel; thence Easterly along the North line of the aforesaid
parcel to the East line of Section 21, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, in Lake County, Illinois; thence South on said East
line of Section 21 (which line is also the West line of Section 22, Township 43
North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal Meridian in Lake County, Illinois,
to the North line of the following described parcel:
The North 334 feet of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section
22, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Lake
County, Illinois; (P.I.N. 13-22-300-002)
Thence Easterly along the North line of the aforesaid parcel to the East line
of the aforesaid parcel; thence Southerly along the East line of the aforesaid
parcel and continuing along the East line of the Lake Barrington Industrial
Subdivision, Unit No. 1, being a Subdivision of part of the Southeast Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter of Section 21, and part of the Southwest Quarter of
the Southwest Quarter of Section 22, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded December 13,
1966 as Document 1324625 in Book 44 of Plats, Page 15 and amended by
Certificate of Correction recorded February 3, 1967 as Document 1328448 in Lake
County, Illinois; thence continuing Southerly along the East line of said Lake
Barrington Industrial Subdivision Unit No. 1, and continuing along the East
line of the Lake Barrington Industrial Subdivision, Unit 2, being a subdivision
of part of Sections 21, 22, 27 and 28, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded March 14, 1968
as Document 1371277 in Book 44 of plats, page 52, in Lake County, Illinois;
thence Southerly and Southwesterly along the East line of said Lake Barrington
Industrial Subdivision, Unit 2; thence continuing Southerly and Southwesterly
along the East line of the following described parcel:
That part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28 and
of that part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 27,
Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal Meridian, described by
commencing at the point of intersection of the West line of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28 and the Northerly right of way
line of the U.S. Route 14; thence North along the West line of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28, 120.53 feet; thence East
parallel with the South line of Lake Barrington Industrial Subdivision Unit No.
1, a Subdivision in Sections 21 and 22, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, 454.44 feet for a point of beginning; thence
continuing East along the last described parallel line 1440.98 feet to the
center line of Flint Creek; thence Southerly along the center line of Flint
Creek to the South line of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 27; thence West along said South line and along the South line of the
Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28, 895.85 feet, more or
less, to the Northerly right of way line of U.S. Route 14; thence Northwesterly
along said right of way line, 346.21 feet; thence Northeasterly 378.33 feet to
the point of beginning, in Lake County, Illinois. (P.I.N. 13-27-100-001 and 13-
28-200-008)
To the South line of the aforesaid parcel; thence Westerly along the South line
of the aforesaid parcel as extended Westerly to the Southwesterly right of way
line of U.S. Route 14 (Northwest Highway); thence Northwesterly along said
Southwesterly right of way line to the Southerly extension of the West line of
Robert Bartlett's Northwest Industrial Subdivision as aforesaid; thence North
on said West line as extended to the place of beginning;
Said territory shall also include Lots 1 and 3 and Classic Court in Longeway's
Subdivision, being a subdivision in part of the West Half of the Southwest
Quarter of Section 21, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal
Meridian according to the plat thereof recorded July 16, 1985 as Document No.
2368891 in the Village of Lake Barrington, Lake County, Illinois (P.I.N. 13-21-
301-015 and 017);
But excluding from the foregoing territory are the following parcels:
That part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 21,
Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal Meridian, described as
follows: Commencing at a point on the center line of Kelsey Road at its
intersection with the Northeasterly line of the right-of-way of State Highway
commonly known as Northwest Highway, said line being 122 feet Northeasterly of
and parallel to the center line of the Northeast track of the Chicago and
Northwestern Railroad; thence Northeasterly on the center line of Kelsey Road
408.03 feet; thence Northwesterly on a line drawn at right angels to the center
line of Kelsey Road 184.31 feet; thence Southwesterly on a line drawn at right
angles to the Northeasterly line of the right- of-way of said State Highway
through a point on a line 30 feet Southwesterly of and parallel to the
Northeasterly line of said Highway 300 feet Northwesterly of its intersection
with the center line of Kelsey Road, a distance of 340.06 feet to the
Northeasterly line of the right-of-way of said State Highway; thence
Southeasterly on the Northeasterly line of said State Highway 291.25 feet to
the point of beginning, [excepting that part thereof lying South of a line
extending across said tract which is 100 feet North of, measured at right
angles to, and parallel with the center line of Federal Aid Highway Route 20
(State Bond Issue 19) as shown on a plat of survey recorded as Document
742361], in Lake County Illinois (Gebhardt, P.I.N. 13-21-300-013);
The South 400 feet of the East 544.70 feet of the West Half of the Southeast
Quarter of Section 21, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the Third Principal
Meridian, in Lake County, Illinois (Grosvenor P.I.N. 13-21-400-018);
The South 10 rods of the North Half of the South Half of the Northeast Quarter
of the Southeast Quarter of Section 21, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, in Lake County, Illinois (Hamm, P.I.N. 13-21-400-
006);
The North Three-Quarters of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
Section 21 (except the South 10 rods thereof) in Township 43 North, Range 9,
East of the Third Principal Meridian in Lake County, Illinois (Damien, P.I.N.
13-21-406-001 through -013).
Lot 27 in Lake Barrington Industrial Subdivision Unit 2, being a subdivision of
part of Sections 21, 22, 27, and 28, Township 43 North, Range 9, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, according to the plat thereof recorded March 14,
1968, as Document 1371277, in Book 44 of Plats, Page 52, in Lake County,
Illinois. (P.I.N. 13-28-202-008 and 13-28-202-007)
WASTEWATER: The wastewater from any domestic, commercial, recreational,
industrial and/or institutional uses.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The document or documents issued in accordance
with the terms of this Title.
WASTEWATER HAULER: Any person, partnership or corporation engaged in
transporting sanitary wastewater as a commercial venture.
WATERCOURSE: Any stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, slough, gulch, ditch reservoir, lake, pond or other natural or
manmade drainageway in or into which storm water runoff and surface water
drainage flow either continuously or intermittently.
WATERS OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through or border upon the State of Illinois or any
portion thereof. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
13-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Application to have water turned on shall be made to the Superintendent. The
applicant must abide by and accept all of the provisions of this Title and
other Village ordinances relating to the water and sewer system as a condition
governing the use of the system, or either part thereof, by the applicant or
his assigns. Failure to so comply is sufficient reason for the Village to
terminate water and/or sewer service. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-1-5: SUPERINTENDENT; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of
Water and Sewers, who shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. In the event that this
position is vacant, the Village Administrator shall fulfill the duties and
possess the authority of this office.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Waterworks: The Superintendent of Water and Sewers shall have charge
of the operation and maintenance of the municipal water pumping, treatment and
distribution system.
      2.   Sewers: The Superintendent of Water and Sewers shall have charge of
the operation and maintenance of all public sewers in the Village.
      3.   Other Duties: The Superintendent of Water and Sewers shall have such
other duties and responsibilities as may be provided for in this Title, and
such other duties as may be assigned by the Village President or Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-1-6: CONFLICTING LAWS:
Any and all ordinances and codes which conflict with the provisions of this
Title shall be and hereby are repealed to the extent of such conflict.
Any and all Federal, State and local statutes, codes, rules and regulations and
any and all handbooks, manuals, etc., that are referenced herein include any
and all subsequent laws, codes, rules, regulations, revisions and editions that
are amendatory and supplemental thereto. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 2
WATER
SECTION:
13-2-1: Authorization For Service
13-2-2: Fire Hydrants; Unmetered Water
13-2-3: Resale Of Water
13-2-4: Tampering With Water And Sewer System
13-2-5: Polluting Or Obstructing Watercourses Prohibited
13-2-6: Stagnant Pools Prohibited
13-2-7: Use Restrictions
13-2-8: Installation And Cost
13-2-9: Pipe Specifications
13-2-10: Depth Of Service Pipes
13-2-11: Shutoff Or Service Boxes
13-2-12: Excavations; Backfilling And Resurfacing
13-2-13: Repairs; Duty Of Owners/Applicants
13-2-1: AUTHORIZATION FOR SERVICE:
No water from the LBBIP water system shall be turned on for service to any
premises by any person except the superintendent of water and sewers or his/her
authorized representative, and then only after he/she has determined that the
proper permits have been obtained, and that the provisions of this chapter and
other ordinances relating to water and sewers are complied with. The occupant
or his/her agent must be on the premises when the water is turned on. (Ord. 98-
O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-2: FIRE HYDRANTS; UNMETERED WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person other than the superintendent of water and
sewers or his/her authorized representative, and other than any member of the
fire department of the fire protection district, acting only in his/her
official capacity for fire prevention or control, to draw water from any fire
hydrant or other unmetered water source, except upon written permission of the
superintendent of water and sewers and then only with provision for
compensation to the village for the quantity of water used based upon the bulk
rate specified in subsection 13-5-6C of this title. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-3: RESALE OF WATER:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the LBBIP
water system to any person or premises other than the one for which application
was made and the permit issued, except as may be provided in the
intergovernmental agreement or any similar agreement. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-4: TAMPERING WITH WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person, not specifically authorized by the
village, to tamper with, alter, or damage any part of the village water and
sewer system, or any water meter, wherever located. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-5: POLLUTING OR OBSTRUCTING WATERCOURSES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
(Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-6: STAGNANT POOLS PROHIBITED:
Any stagnant pool of water in the village which is not part of a jurisdictional
wetland as defined by the latest edition of the "Federal Manual For Wetlands
Delineation", or by any other applicable law, rule or regulation which confers
jurisdiction over the elimination or modification of a standing pool of water
to an agency or department of the federal or state government, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any
such nuisance to remain or exist on property under his/her control. (Ord. 98-O-
07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-7: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The superintendent of water and sewers shall have the authority to restrict the
use of water from the LBBIP water system in order to ensure adequate water
pressures during certain months of the year. When lawn watering restrictions
are in force, lawn watering shall be limited to two (2) lawn watering devices.
Specifically exempt from the requirements set forth below are handheld hoses or
sprinkling cans. Such restriction of water usage shall be enforced as follows:
   A.   All users located on properties designated by a street address with an
even number shall be permitted to use water for lawn purposes on even numbered
days of the month only.
   B.   All users located on properties designated by a street address with an
odd number shall be permitted to use water for lawn purposes on odd numbered
days of the month only.
   C.   Any exceptions to the above restrictions shall require a special
village permit. Such exceptions shall only be authorized by the superintendent
of water and sewers.
Signage announcing the watering restrictions shall have the following meanings:
      1.   Blue: Unrestricted watering.
      2.   Yellow: The above described even/odd days restrictions apply. There
are no restrictions as to hours of watering.
      3.   Orange: The above described even/odd days restrictions apply.
Watering is limited to the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M.
      4.   Red: Watering of any lawn is strictly prohibited.
Signage for watering shall be double sided signs and shall be posted at major
intersections. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
13-2-8: INSTALLATION AND COST:
All connections from the main which is part of the LBBIP water system to a user
shall be installed and all materials furnished by and at the cost of the owner
of the property to be served or at the cost of the applicant for service. Such
installations shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of water and
sewers. At least two (2) business days' notice must be given to the
superintendent by the owner or applicant before the superintendent will inspect
such installations. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-9: PIPE SPECIFICATIONS:
All water service pipes from a main which is part of the village's water system
to a user's meter shall be not less than one inch (1") in size. Only type "K"
soft temper copper pipes or tubing shall be used to connect any meter with such
mains. All fittings and connections shall be uniform in size and comply with
specifications established by the plumbing code adopted by the village. A water
meter is required as a condition of service to any user. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-
1998)
13-2-10: DEPTH OF SERVICE PIPES:
All service pipes shall be buried at least five feet (5') deep in the ground.
(Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-11: SHUTOFF OR SERVICE BOXES:
Shutoff or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe, and shall be
located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is practicable
and shall not be installed within five feet (5') of a tree or in the driveway
pavement unless such installation in a driveway pavement is approved by the
superintendent of water and sewers. Such boxes shall be so located so that they
are easily accessible, and shall be protected from frost. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-
1998)
13-2-12: EXCAVATIONS; BACKFILLING AND RESURFACING:
Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made in
compliance with the provisions of this code relating to excavations in streets.
The owner of the property or the applicant for the service shall cause any
excavation in a street to be backfilled and resurfaced after the completed work
is approved by the superintendent. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-2-13: REPAIRS; DUTY OF OWNERS/APPLICANTS:
   A.   All repairs on service pipes from the shutoff box to the building shall
be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served or at the
expense of the applicants for the service.
   B.   The village may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipe, and
if this is done the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by
the owner of the premises served or the applicant for the service within thirty
(30) days after the village issues an invoice for the costs. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-
3-1998)
CHAPTER 3
SEWERS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Definition Of Public Sanitary Sewer
13-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required; Prohibited Activities
13-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal
13-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
13-3-5: Repairs; Duty Of Owners/Applicants
13-3-6: Protection Of Sewerage Works
13-3-7: Inspectors; Powers And Authority
13-3-8: Penalties
13-3-1: DEFINITION OF PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER:
For the purposes of this chapter, a "public sanitary sewer" shall mean any
sanitary sewer which directly or indirectly collects, transmits, and/or
discharges sanitary sewage to any wastewater treatment plant, whether such
sanitary sewer and/or wastewater treatment plant is publicly or privately
owned. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-7-2012)
13-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within any
area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or watercourse
within any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage, pollutant or
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Within the village of Lake Barrington special service area number
three, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended to be used for the disposal of
sewage.
   D.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any public sanitary
sewer.
   E.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of
the superintendent to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   F.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any water or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewerage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage works such as, but not limited to: ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground
by garbage grinders.
   G.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a public
sanitary sewer the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes
if the superintendent determines that such waters or wastes, singly or by
interaction with other wastes, can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment; can cause an adverse effect on the receiving stream in
violation of chapter 3 of the water pollution rules and regulations, adopted by
the Illinois pollution control board pursuant to section 13 of the Illinois
environmental protection act, or in violation of the effluent limitations of
the NPDES permit; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In making his/her determination as to the acceptability
of these wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantities of such waters or wastes in relation to flows and velocities in
the sewers, materials or construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any industrial wastes containing substances exceeding the
categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industry as defined in 40
CFR chapter I, or the following maximum concentrations of pollutants, whichever
is lowest:
   Maximum Concentration Pollutant
   (In Milligrams Per Liter (mg/l))
Five day BOD           300.0
Total suspended solids 350.0
Ammonia                50.0
Arsenic                0.5
Cadmium                1.0
Chromium (hexavalent)  0.5
Chromium (total)       3.0
Copper                 3.4
Cyanide                1.2
Iron                   10.0
Lead                   0.7
Manganese              1.0
Mercury                0.0005
Nickel                 4.0
Oil (hexane soluble)   100.0
Phenols                1.0
Phosphorous            25.0
Selenium               1.0
Silver                 1.0
Zinc                   3.0
 
      6.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      7.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      8.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   H.   Decision Of Superintendent: If any waters or wastes are discharged, or
are proposed to be discharged to the public sanitary sewers, which waters
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in this
section and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment
provided in 40 CFR, part 403, general pretreatment regulations for existing and
new sources of pollution, published in Federal register volume 53, no. 200,
Monday, October 17, 1988, and any amendments thereto, or which in the judgment
of the Village, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may reject the wastes; require
pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sanitary
sewer; require control over the quantities and rates of the discharge; and/or
require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the wastes
not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, or under the provisions of this
section. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
wastewater flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-
7-2012)
   I.   Interceptors Required:
      1.   Fats, oil, grease and sand interceptors shall be installed when the
Superintendent determines they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing fats, oils and/or grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be
of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      2.   Without any limitation of the requirements of subsection I1 of this
section, each person constructing, operating, or owning a facility within the
Village, other than a private residence, which will be used for the
manufacture, processing, or preparation of food or food products, shall install
and use, at its own expense, a grease trap of adequate capacity and function to
prevent a discharge of fats, oils and/or grease to the Village sewers in
prohibited concentrations. Grease traps shall be as specified by the Illinois
State Plumbing Code, as amended from time to time, and shall be kept clean as
required by the manufacturer's written instructions and shall be inspected by a
licensed State of Illinois plumbing inspector not less than once per year. The
owner of the property and the operator of the facility within which such grease
trap is installed shall each be required to provide a copy of all such
inspection report(s) of all such grease traps to the Village within five (5)
working days after the inspection. A log of the cleaning and inspections of
each such installed grease trap shall be kept on site, and the property owner
and the operator of the facility within which such grease trap is installed
shall each be required to provide to the inspector and to the Village a copy of
such log, upon request.
      3.   The fee for annual inspection and reinspection(s) of required
interceptors for fats, oil, grease and sand shall be as specified from time to
time in section
1-10-7 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-O-06, 4-3-2018)
   J.   Maintenance By Owner Or Applicant: Where pretreatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner or applicant at his or her
expense.
   K.   Manholes: The owner or occupant of any property serviced by a public
sewer shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such necessary
meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the Village. The manhole shall be installed by the owner or
applicant at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   L.   Measurements And Laboratory Analyses: The owner or occupant of any
property serviced by a public sewer shall provide laboratory measurements,
tests and analyses of waters and wastes to demonstrate compliance with this
title and any special conditions for discharge established by the Village or
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type
and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner or applicant,
shall be as determined by the Superintendent, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the Federal, State and
local standards are being met. The owner or applicant shall report the results
of measurements and laboratory analyses to the Village at such times and in
such manner as prescribed by the Superintendent. At such times as deemed
necessary, the Village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for
analysis. The owner or occupant shall bear the expense of all measurements,
analyses and reporting required or collected by the Village.
   M.   In Accordance With Testing Procedures: All measurements, tests and
analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made
in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
"Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by
the American Public Health Association and USEPA guidelines establishing test
procedures for analysis of pollutants, pursuant to 40 CFR part 136, and shall
be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken
at said control manhole. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted
methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewerage works and to
determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular
analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite sample or whether
a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and
suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24 hour composite samples, whereas
pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.)
   N.   Special Agreements And Arrangements: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
by and among the Village, the Village of Fox River Grove, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Village in the public sewer system and by Fox River Grove for
treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern, provided such
payments are in accordance with and in addition to the applicable rates
specified in section
13-5-6 of this title.
   O.   Any user of a public sewer who commences the discharge of hazardous
waste shall notify the POTW, the USEPA regional waste management division
director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge
into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a
hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the name
of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste
number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the public
sewer user discharges more than ten kilograms (10 kg) of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the industrial user: An identification of the hazardous constituents contained
in the wastes, and estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the waste stream discharged during that calendar month, and an
estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be
discharged during the following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take
place no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this subsection need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed
discharges must be submitted under subsection 13-6-6O of this title.
   P.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection O of this
section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
kilograms (15 kg) of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
fifteen kilograms (15 kg) of nonacute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR
261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a onetime notification.
Subsequent months during which the public sewer user discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   Q.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
POTW, the USEPA regional waste management waste division director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   R.   In the case of any notification made under subsection O, P, or Q of
this section, the public sewer user shall certify that it has a program in
place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the
degree it has determined to be economically practical. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-7-
2012)
13-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
If a property is not within the village of Lake Barrington special service area
number three, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of title 12 of this code. (Ord.
2012-O-03, 2-7-2012)
13-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent of water and
sewers as provided in this title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge wastewater to any public sanitary
sewer except those wastewaters in compliance with standards promulgated
pursuant to the federal act or the state act or any rules, regulations,
ordinances or standards of the village.
   C.   In each case, the owner and the occupant shall make application on a
special form furnished by the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code for a building sewer permit shall be paid to the village at
the time the application is filed. Said permit and inspection fee is in
addition to the other connection fees required by this title. Each LBBIP sewer
system user, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
   D.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
works, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment facilities,
have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the
additional anticipated waste load.
   E.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner or applicant. The person
installing the building sewer for said owner or applicant shall be a licensed
plumber or sewer contractor and he/she shall indemnify the village from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said
installation. Before a building sewer permit is issued, the licensed plumber or
sewer contractor shall file with the village clerk an indemnity bond in the
amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), with a corporate surety licensed
to do business in the state on a bond form supplied by the village. In addition
thereto, the licensed plumber or sewer contractor shall file with the village
clerk a certificate of insurance showing that the contractor is insured under a
public liability insurance policy per occurrence in the amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury and one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for property damage.
   F.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   G.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the superintendent to meet all
requirements of this title.
   H.   Building sewers shall not be less than six inch (6") diameter size pipe
installed at a minimum invert slope of 0.125 (1/8) inch per foot, or not less
than four inch (4") diameter size pipe in lengths of not less than ten feet
(10') installed at a minimum invert slope of 0.25 (1/4) inch per foot. Building
sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
superintendent as to trench excavation and backfilling, installation of pipe
and fittings and testing.
   I.   Building sewers shall be constructed using one of the following listed
materials:
      1.   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) sewer pipe conforming to the latest revised
specification requirements of ASTM D3034, type PSM. The pipe and fittings shall
have a minimum wall thickness SDR 35. The joints shall be either the solvent
weld type conforming to the latest revised specification requirements of ASTM
D2564 and ASTM D2855, or elastomeric gasket type conforming to the latest
revised specification requirements of ASTM D3212. A thicker walled pipe, SDR
26, may be required by the superintendent if a thicker walled pipe is
determined to be necessary to protect the public health because of design and/
or field conditions. The superintendent shall state in writing the reason why
design and/or field conditions necessitate a thicker walled pipe.
      2.   Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) sewer pipe and fittings
conforming to the latest revision of ASTM specification D2751 with solvent
welded joints or compression type rubber ring gasket joints conforming to the
latest revision of ASTM specifications D2235 and D3212, respectively, installed
in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
      3.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe and fittings conforming to the
latest revision of CISPI specification HS-67 with compression type rubber ring
gasket joints, conforming to the latest revision of ASTM specification C564,
installed in accordance with the latest revision of the Illinois state plumbing
code.
   J.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the branch fitting, if such is available at a suitable location. If the
public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less and no properly located
branch fitting is available, the owner or applicant shall, at his expense,
install a wye branch fitting in the public sewer at the location specified and
installation approved by the superintendent.
   K.   All building sewers shall be bedded on a layer of gravel or crushed
stone, conforming to the latest revision of ASTM specification D2321, to
provide a minimum thickness of four inches (4") under the pipe and initial
backfill of twelve inches (12") over the top of the pipe.
   L.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall which might thereby
be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sewage carried by such drains shall be lifted by approved
pumping devices and discharged to the building sewer.
   M.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer, building drain or sump pump which in turn is connected to a
public sanitary sewer.
   N.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his/her representative.
   O.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village. All excavations
shall be made in compliance with the provisions of this code relating to
excavations in streets. Prior to any excavation, the plumber or sewer
contractor shall notify all public and private utility companies. (Ord. 2012-O-
03, 2-7-2012)
13-3-5: REPAIRS; DUTY OF OWNERS/APPLICANTS:
   A.   All repairs on sewer lines from the public sanitary sewer main to the
building shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises
served or the applicants for the service.
   B.   The village may, in the case of an emergency, repair any sewer line
connected to the public sanitary sewer and if this is done the cost of such
repair work shall be repaid to the village by the owner of the premises served
or the applicant for the service within thirty (30) days after the village
issues an invoice for the costs.
   C.   The costs of cleanup and repair for any backup in the public sanitary
sewer caused by the owner of the premises served or the occupant and applicant
for the service shall be borne by the owner and/or applicant. There shall be no
reimbursement to the owner and/or by such applicant to cover the costs of
cleanup and/or repairs due to sewer backups unless said backup was the direct
result of work done by village personnel. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-7-2012)
13-3-6: PROTECTION OF SEWERAGE WORKS:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy or
tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the
sewerage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and damaging public
property. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-7-2012)
13-3-7: INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Inspections: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the U.S.
environmental protection agency may enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this title. The superintendent or his/her representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
      1.   Credentials: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the village shall, upon request, disclose proper credentials of his/her
respective office for the purpose of inspecting, observing, measuring, sampling
and/or testing on the property in the performance of his/her duties under this
title.
      2.   Inspection Upon Warrant; Right Of Entry: Whenever the superintendent
or other duly authorized employees of the village, after presentation of proper
credentials and request for entry to inspect, observe, measure, sample and/or
test, is refused access to the property by the owner or occupant or other
person in charge subject to the provisions of this title, the superintendent is
authorized to petition any court having competent jurisdiction, through the
village attorney, for the issuance of a warrant or order authorizing the
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and/or testing of the property
as is necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this title.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The superintendent and other duly authorized employees
of the village bearing proper credentials and identifications shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village has an
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurements, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-7-2012)
13-3-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this title shall be
served by the village with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. In addition, the village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this title.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this title or who shall
continue to fail to comply with any provision of this title beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined and be subject to the other penalties as specified from time to time in
section
1-4-1 of this code if the conviction is for the first violation by such person
to occur within the previous twelve (12) month period. Such fine shall be not
less than twice the specified minimum fine if the conviction is for the second
violation by such person within a twelve (12) month period and not less than
three (3) times the specified minimum fine if such person has violated a
provision of this title more than twice during the twelve (12) month period
prior to the conviction. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense for which fine(s) and other penalties shall be
imposed.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall become
liable to the respective owner(s) of the public sewers, or the wastewater
treatment plant, or other system facilities, for any damages caused by reason
of any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-O-03, 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 4
CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
13-4-1: Connection Permit Required
13-4-2: Application For Connection Permit
13-4-3: Permit Issuance
13-4-4: Connections Supervised
13-4-5: Work Not To Be Covered Prior To Inspection
13-4-6: Permit Fees Within Corporate Limits
13-4-7: Property Outside Special Service Area
13-4-8: Shut-Off Devices
13-4-1: CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED:
No connection with a water main or sewer shall be made without a permit being
issued and two (2) business days' notice having been given to the
Superintendent of Water and Sewers. No water line which has a diameter greater
than eight inches (8") shall be connected to a water main. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-
1998)
13-4-2: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION PERMIT:
   A.   No permit for a water or sewer connection or service shall be issued or
granted by the Village for an industrial or commercial use unless an
application is first made to the Superintendent of Water and Sewers for such
connection or services and unless the applicant first establishes that the
applicant or his/her assigns will not discharge or permit to be discharged any
water or effluent into the Village sewer system in violation of this Title or
any Village ordinance, State or Federal regulation, and that the quantity or
quality of water or effluent sought to be discharged into the Village sewer
system will not be beyond the sewage treatment capacity provided to the LBBIP
sanitary sewer system as specified by the intergovernmental agreement for
wastewater treatment services. The application shall be made in writing and
shall be subscribed to under oath by the user, if the applicant is not a
corporation, or, if the applicant is a corporation, then by its president. The
application shall contain the following information or items:
      1.   The business or corporate name and address of applicant.
      2.   The name and address of applicant's president, if the applicant is a
corporation.
      3.   The name and address of the owner or owners if the applicant is not
a corporation.
      4.   The uses for which the water is intended.
      5.   A detailed flow chart, showing, in sequential order, the flow of all
water proposed to be used by the applicant, from the point of its initial entry
into the building or structure, through all of the commercial or industrial
operations or processes it subsequently passes, to the point where it is
finally discharged into the Village sewer. The flow chart shall also show the
point or points in the operations or processes at which any chemicals or
compounds are injected into the water or sewage flow and shall fully identify
the substance so injected.
      6.   An estimate of the maximum number of gallons of water to be used by
the applicant each day and the first use date.
      7.   A descriptive list of any and all chemicals and compounds that are
to be discharged into the sewer, and the maximum quantities to be used each day
in the subject's commercial or industrial processes or operations.
      8.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant proposes to install
any water or effluent treatment facilities on the premises in conjunction with
its operations or processes, and, if it does not, a statement of the reasons
why it is not doing so. If the facilities are to be installed, then the
applicant shall attach to the application herein, detailed plans and
specifications of such facilities and shall state the date of effective
operation of such installation.
   B.   The applicant shall file new flow charts with the Superintendent
whenever any change or alteration is made in its operations or processes which
materially or substantially change the quality or quantity of the water or the
effluent discharge into the sewer.
   C.   The applicant shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit in conjunction
with the connection permit if said permit is required under the provisions of
section
13-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-4-3: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
The superintendent or other properly designated official shall not issue any
permit required by this chapter until: a) all outstanding water and sewer
service fees and connection charges on the property are fully paid, including
any fees and interest due to date, and b) any and all required approvals or
permits are obtained from federal, state or county agencies. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-
3-1998)
13-4-4: CONNECTIONS SUPERVISED:
All connections shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or
his/her duly authorized representative. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-4-5: WORK NOT TO BE COVERED PRIOR TO INSPECTION:
No connection made pursuant to this title shall be covered until the materials
and work have been inspected by the superintendent. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-4-6: PERMIT FEES WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS:
The fees as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code shall be charged for permits to connect property located
within the corporate limits of the village of Lake Barrington special service
area number three to the LBBIP sanitary sewer system and the LBBIP water
system, which fees shall be paid to the village of Fox River Grove pursuant to
the intergovernmental agreement.
There shall be no separate connection charge for a sprinkler system.
The permit fee for connection to the LBBIP water system and to the LBBIP
sanitary sewer system where the diameter of the domestic water line is greater
than two inches (2") shall be established by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2008-
O-05, 2-5-2008)
13-4-7: PROPERTY OUTSIDE SPECIAL SERVICE AREA:
No property which is not within the village of Lake Barrington special service
area number three shall be permitted to connect to any part of the village's
LBBIP sanitary sewer system or to any part of the LBBIP water system. (Ord. 98-
O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-4-8: SHUTOFF DEVICES:
No tees, valves, or other shutoff devices shall be installed between the water
main and meter, except for the village's shutoff valve located in the public
right of way, in what is commonly called the "buffalo box". (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-
1998)
CHAPTER 5
METERS AND RATES
SECTION:
13-5-1: Meter Usage
13-5-2: Meter Or Application Requirements
13-5-3: Installation And Maintenance Of Meters
13-5-4: Type Of Meters
13-5-5: Billings
13-5-6: Rates Established
13-5-7: Joint And Severable Liability
13-5-8: Payment Due; Late Payment
13-5-9: Delinquent Bills
13-5-10: Foreclosure
13-5-11: Disconnection Of Service For Nonpayment
13-5-1: METER USAGE:
   A.   All users of the LBBIP water system shall install as part of their
respective connection, a water meter with a proper backflow device as required
by Section
13-7-5 of this Title, and pay for service at the metered rate.
   B.   Metered usage shall be read to the lowest even increment of one
thousand (1,000) gallons.
   C.   No owner or occupant of property within the Village of Lake Barrington
Special Service Area Number Three shall obtain any portion of their water
service from other than the LBBIP water system.
   D.   When the volume of wastewater discharged to the public sewer cannot be
otherwise determined by use of water meters, wherever required by the
Superintendent, sewage metering devices shall be installed by the owner and
occupant of any property in the Village of Lake Barrington Special Service Area
Number Three at the expense of the owner and occupant, and such meters shall be
maintained by the Village at no expense to the Village.
   E.   Metering devices shall not be removed without the consent of the
Superintendent. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-5-2: METER OR APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Before any premises using Village water service is occupied, a water meter
shall be installed therein as required by this Chapter or application shall be
made for such water service at a flat rate of charge until such meter can be
installed or no water shall be furnished to such premises. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-
1998)
13-5-3: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF METERS:
The owner of the property to be served or the applicant for the service shall
purchase the required meter from the Village at the price established by the
Superintendent. Water meters shall be maintained by the Village but at the
expense of the owner and occupant, and shall be installed by the owner or
occupant or their agent at their cost at an exterior location providing easy
access for reading and testing as approved by the Superintendent. (The meter
and its installation shall be the costs of the owner or applicant.)
Installations shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Water and
Sewers. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-5-4: TYPE OF METERS:
Water meters, expansion chambers and dual check valves installed pursuant to
this Chapter shall be of a type and size specified by the Superintendent. All
meters shall be equipped with a plug-in device or touch-pad device approved by
the Superintendent which shall permit the meter to be read by an electronic
meter-reading apparatus. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-5-5: BILLINGS:
The Superintendent, subject to the provision of this Section, shall determine
the billing period for each water and/or sewer user in the Village. The
Superintendent shall cause each water meter used in the Village to be read and
each premises in the Village to be billed every two (2) months. (Ord. 98-O-07,
3-3-1998)
13-5-6: RATES ESTABLISHED:
The rates and charges for the use of and for the services supplied by the LBBIP
water system and LBBIP sewage system, based upon meter readings of the amount
of water consumed in each two (2) month period on each premises located within
the corporate limits of the village of Lake Barrington special service area
number three, supplied with water and/or sewage service by said system, shall
include a basic service charge and user charge.
   A.   Effective May 1, 2006, the basic water and sewer service charge ("the
basic service charge") to be paid by each user shall be as specified from time
to time in section
1-10-7 of this code. Said basic service charge shall begin on the first day of
the month beginning at least sixty (60) days after notice to the owner,
beneficial owner, and/or occupant of the premises that they are required to
connect the premises to the LBBIP sanitary sewer system and the LBBIP water
system is given by the village via regular mail and via certified mail, return
receipt requested, as provided by subsection 13-1-2B of this title.
   B.   The sewer and water usage charge to be paid by each user shall be as
specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
   C.   Only with the prior approval of the superintendent, a user of bulk
amounts of water from the LBBIP water system for uses which in no way directly
or indirectly contribute to sanitary sewage flows to the LBBIP sewage system
also have a separate service connection on the premises metered, at the user's
expense, for bulk water usage. The charge for such separately metered bulk
water usage shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
   D.   A treatment service surcharge shall be levied to all sewer users whose
wastewater exceeds the normal concentrations of two hundred milligrams per
liter (200 mg/l) of BOD and two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l)
of suspended solids, as determined by waste sampling which shall be performed
as often as deemed necessary by the superintendent and shall be binding as the
basis for computing the surcharge. The surcharge rates shall be as specified
from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code.
All such surcharges collected by the village of Lake Barrington shall be paid
to the village of Fox River Grove.
   E.   The rates and charges for the use of and for the services supplied by
the village of Fox River Grove shall be paid to the village of Fox River Grove
pursuant to the current intergovernmental agreement providing for such
services. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
   F.   In addition to the basic water and sewer service charge and water and
sewer usage fees as set forth in this section, a supplemental sewer and water
charge as specified in section
1-10-7 of this code in order to provide an equitable contribution to the
village of Lake Barrington special service area number three toward the cost
incurred by village of Lake Barrington special service area number three in
providing the capital infrastructure of the Lake Barrington business and
industrial park water system and of the Lake Barrington business and industrial
park sewage system and the financing thereof, which charges shall be paid by
each user of such services where the property of such user located in the
village of Lake Barrington special service area number three is or is eligible
to be declared exempt from real estate taxes.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection to the contrary, the village
board reserves the right to and may, at its sole discretion, from time to time,
adjust such supplemental charges provided by this subsection, pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement approved by the village board. (Ord. 2008-O-25, 9-
2-2008)
13-5-7: JOINT AND SEVERABLE LIABILITY:
The owner and occupant of any premises and the user of either water or sewage
service, or both water and sewage service, shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service on said premises, and the service is furnished to
the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the service, are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the village. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-5-8: PAYMENT DUE; LATE PAYMENT:
Water and sewer bills shall be rendered at the end of each two (2) month period
as established in this chapter and shall be payable, within fifteen (15) days
after the date of the original bill. If the bill is not paid within the initial
fifteen (15) day period then in such case a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
amount of the bill shall be added thereto and become due. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-
1998)
13-5-9: DELINQUENT BILLS:
In the event a water or sewer bill including any penalty then due is not paid
within sixty (60) days after the date of billing, such charges and penalty
shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter the
village shall file a statement of lien claim with the county recorder of deeds.
This statement of lien claim shall include the legal description of the
property to which service was provided, the amount unpaid including penalty,
and a notice that the village claims a lien for the stated amount as well as
for all water or sewer charges and penalties, subsequent to the period for
which the bill was rendered. Whenever the person whose water or sewer bill is
delinquent is not the owner of the property to which service was provided by
the village, and the village has previously received notice of this, notice of
delinquency and lien shall be mailed to the owner of the property if the
owner's address is known by the village. The failure of the village to record
the lien with the county recorder of deeds or to mail the notice of delinquency
and lien to the owner of the property or failure of the owner to receive such
notice shall not affect the right of the village to foreclose the lien for
unpaid bills as mentioned in the following section. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-5-10: FORECLOSURE:
Property subject to a lien for unpaid water or sewer charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be brought in the name of the village.
The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to initiate such
proceedings against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid ninety
(90) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-5-11: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT:
The water supply or sewer service may be shut off from any premises for which
the water or sewer bill remains unpaid forty (40) days after the rendition of
the bill for such service. Such service shall be discontinued after notice to
the customer of a hearing on the proposed shutoff before the president and
board of trustees, or such person or persons designated by them to hold such
hearings. If water service is discontinued after the hearing, or after the
customer has failed to appear at the hearing, water service shall not be
reinstated until all past due bills and penalties due thereon are paid in full,
together with the payment of a fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code to cover the cost of reinstating service. (Ord. 2008-O-05,
2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 6
WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-6-1: Purpose And Policy
13-6-2: National Categorical Treatment Standards
13-6-3: Pretreatment
13-6-4: Excessive Discharge
13-6-5: Containment
13-6-6: Wastewater Discharge Permit
13-6-7: Inspection, Sampling And Record Keeping
13-6-8: Public Notification Of Significant Violations
13-6-9: Compulsory Compliance Procedures
13-6-10: Revocation Of Permit
13-6-11: Immediate Disconnection Of Service
13-6-12: Elimination Of Discharge; Reinstatement
13-6-13: Injunctive Relief
13-6-14: Additional Remedies
13-6-15: Penalties And Costs
13-6-16: Falsification
13-6-17: Jurisdiction
13-6-18: Right Of Revision
13-6-19: Discharge By Wastewater Hauler Prohibited
13-6-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
Pursuant to the requirements of title III of the Clean Water Act of 1977 1 , as
amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act of 1970 2 , as amended, one of the purposes of this Title is to
establish wastewater pretreatment regulations to prevent the introduction of
pollutants into the public sanitary sewer system which will interfere with the
operation of the sewage treatment plant, including interference with its use or
disposal of municipal sludge, or which will pass through the sewage treatment
plant or otherwise be incompatible with such treatment works as required under
applicable provisions of this Title. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 33 USC §1251 et seq.
2 2. 415 ILCS 511 et seq.
13-6-2: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL TREATMENT STANDARDS:
The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards promulgated by the USEPA and
set forth in 40 CFR, chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405-471, three (3) copies
of which have been on file in the office of the Village Clerk for a period of
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the adoption of this
Title, shall be and hereby are incorporated by reference. If said National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards for a particular user are more stringent
than the limitations otherwise imposed under this Chapter for sources in that
category, the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall supersede the
limitations and conditions otherwise imposed under this Chapter; and said
standards shall be complied with by all users subject to such National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards. The Village shall notify all known affected
users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR section 403.12.
(Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-3: PRETREATMENT:
All users shall provide necessary wastewater pretreatment as required to comply
with this Title and shall achieve compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards within the time limitations, as specified by appropriate statutes and
regulations. The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall be added to
this Chapter as amendments. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the POTW shall be provided, properly operated and
maintained at the user's expense. All users shall obtain all necessary
construction operating permits from the IEPA. Such pretreatment facilities
shall be under the control and direction of an IEPA certified wastewater
treatment operator. Any subsequent significant changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be accepted by the
Village prior to the user's initiation of the changes. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-4: EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE:
No user shall increase the use of process water or in any way attempt to dilute
a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate pretreatment to
achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards (NCPS), when effective, or in any other pollutant-
specific limitations developed by the Village. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-5: CONTAINMENT:
   A.   Each user having the ability to cause interference with the POTW
treatment plant or to violate the regulatory provisions of this Title shall
provide protection from accidental discharge to the POTW of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this Chapter. Facilities to prevent
accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner's or user's own cost and expense.
   B.   All users whose wastewater includes or could include compatible or
incompatible pollutants in amounts great enough to cause interference with the
POTW must have detailed plans on file with the Village, showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide protection from accidental discharge. All users
shall complete construction of said facilities by the compliance date required
by the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards. No user who begins
contributing to or could contribute such pollutants to the POTW after the
effective date of this Title shall be permitted to introduce such pollutants
into the POTW, until accidental discharge facilities and procedures, as
appropriate, have been approved by the Village and installed by the user.
Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve
the user from the responsibility to modify its facility, as necessary to meet
the requirements of this Title.
   C.   In the case of an accidental or deliberate discharge of compatible or
incompatible pollutants which may cause interference at the POTW or violate
requirements of this Title, it shall be the responsibility of the user to
immediately telephone and notify the Superintendent of this incident. The
notification shall include the name of caller, the location and time of
discharge and the type of wastewater, concentration and volume.
   D.   Within fifteen (15) days following such an accidental or deliberate
discharge, the user shall submit to the Village a detailed written report,
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Follow-up reports may be required by the
Village as needed. Such report or reports shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such report relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by the Village. Failure to report accidental or
deliberate discharges may, in addition to any other remedies available to the
Village, result in the revocation of the discharger's wastewater discharge
permit.
   E.   The user shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility, until the facility is
restored, or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
includes the situation when, among other things, the primary source of power of
the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   F.   A notice in English and the language of common use shall be permanently
posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place, advising
employees whom to call in the event of an accidental or illegal discharge.
Employers shall ensure that all employees who are in a position to cause,
discover or observe such discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-6: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT:
   A.   When requested by the Superintendent all users must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by completing a
wastewater survey prior to commencing their discharge. The Superintendent is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update the survey. Failure to complete this survey shall be reasonable
grounds for terminating service to the user and shall be considered a violation
of this Chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any significant user to discharge wastewater
into the Village's POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit.
Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge permit
shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter. Obtaining a wastewater discharge
permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all
Federal and State pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other
requirements of Federal, State and local law.
   C.   The Superintendent may require other users, including liquid waste
haulers, to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the
purposes of this Chapter.
   D.   Any user which will discharge industrial waste into the POTW after
connection shall within one hundred twenty (120) days after the effective date
of this title, apply for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with this
section and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this title except in
accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the superintendent.
   E.   Any user proposing to begin or recommence discharging industrial wastes
into the POTW must obtain a wastewater discharge permit prior to the beginning
or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge
permit must be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin.
   F.   In order to be considered for a wastewater discharge permit, all
industrial users required to have a wastewater discharge permit must submit the
information required by section
13-4-2 of this title and the additional information listed below:
      1.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW.
      2.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation.
      3.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production.
      4.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
      5.   The site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      6.   Time and duration of the discharge.
      7.   A list of any environmental control wastewater discharge permits
held by or for the facility.
      8.   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other
streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out
in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      9.   Identify the categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
      10.   Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration (and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
village) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long term average concentrations (or mass,
where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with procedures
set out in section
13-3-2 of this title.
      11.   A statement reviewed by the user's authorized representative and
certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional
operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to
meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      12.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision.
   G.   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must
contain the following certification statement and be signed by an authorized
representative of the user:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information.
   H.   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the Superintendent will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. If no
determination is made within this time period, the application will be deemed
denied. The Superintendent may deny any applications for a wastewater discharge
permit.
   I.   Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five (5) years. A wastewater discharge permit may be
issued for a period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the
Superintendent. Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date
upon which it will expire.
   J.   Wastewater discharge permits shall include such conditions as are
reasonably deemed necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass-through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, protect ambient air quality, and protect against
damage to the POTW.
Wastewater discharge permits must contain the following conditions:
      1.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five (5) years.
      2.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable.
      3.   Effluent limits applicable to the user based on applicable standards
in Federal, State, and local law.
      4.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on Federal, State, and local law.
      5.   Statement of applicable civil, criminal and administrative penalties
for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
   K.   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      2.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties.
      3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works.
      4.   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated, or routine discharges.
      5.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
      7.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit.
      8.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this Title and State and Federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   L.   Any interested person, including a user, may petition the Village Board
to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within thirty (30)
days of its issuance.
      1.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be
a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      2.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
      3.   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
      4.   If the Village Board fails to act within thirty (30) days, a request
for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied.
   M.   Either the Superintendent or the Village Board may modify the
wastewater discharge permit for good cause including, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the industrial
user's operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance.
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the Village's POTW, Village personnel, or the receiving waters.
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit.
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting.
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13.
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit.
The filing of a request by the permittee for a wastewater discharge permit
modification does not stay any wastewater discharge permit condition.
   N.   Wastewater discharge permits may not be reassigned or transferred to a
new owner, operator or lessee. A new wastewater discharge permit must be
requested by the new owner, operator or lessee.
   O.   Each user is required to notify the Superintendent of any planned
significant changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the
nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least sixty (60) days before the
change.
      1.   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under this Section.
      2.   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit or modify
an existing wastewater discharge permit.
      3.   No user shall implement the planned changed condition(s) until and
unless the Superintendent has responded to the industrial user's notice.
      4.   For purposes of this requirement flow increases of ten percent (10%)
or greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, shall be
deemed significant. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-7: INSPECTION, SAMPLING AND RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   The Superintendent may inspect the facilities of all users to ascertain
whether the purposes of this Title are being met and if all requirements of
this Title are being complied with. If persons or occupants of the premises on
which a discharge source or treatment system is located or in which records are
kept do not voluntarily allow the Superintendent or his/her representative
ready access upon presentation of credentials at reasonable times to all parts
of said premises for the purpose of inspecting, sampling, examining and
photocopying records required to be kept by this Title and the performance of
their other duties, then the Superintendent is authorized to petition any court
having competent jurisdiction through the Village Attorney for the issuance of
a search warrant which will allow such inspection, sampling, examination and
photocopying and the performance of any of their other duties. If the
Superintendent or his/her representative finds that it is necessary to set up
on the user's property devices that are necessary to conduct sampling,
monitoring and metering operations, the Superintendent shall request permission
from the user to set up such devices. If the industrial user refuses to grant
such permission, the Superintendent shall apply to the appropriate court
through the Village Attorney for a warrant or order which will allow such
devices to be set up on the user's property.
   B.   All users and the Village shall maintain records of all information
resulting from any monitoring activities required by this Chapter, and the
records shall include:
      1.   The date, exact place, method and time of sampling and the names of
the persons taking the samples;
      2.   The dates analyses were performed;
      3.   Who performed the analyses;
      4.   The analytical techniques/methods used; and
      5.   The results of such analyses.
   C.   The Village and all users shall maintain such records for a minimum of
three (3) years. This period of retention shall be extended during the course
of any unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants by the
industrial user or operation of the POTW pretreatment program or when requested
by the regional administrator of the USEPA or the director of IEPA. (Ord. 98-O-
07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-8: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT VIOLATIONS:
The Village shall annually publish in a newspaper, which has a general
circulation within the Village, a list of the users who committed significant
violations of any pretreatment requirement or standard during the previous
twelve (12) months. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-9: COMPULSORY COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation And Compliance Meeting: Should a violation of this
Title by any user occur, the Village shall notify the offending user, in
writing, through a "notice of violation" as to the particulars of such
violation or violations and set a time and place for a meeting (hereinafter
called a "compliance meeting") to be attended by representatives of the Village
and the user. The purpose of such a meeting shall be to establish such
procedures, investigations, studies and compliance measures as the Village
deems necessary and desirable to control and prevent a violation of this Title.
The user shall cooperate fully with the Village in making such investigations
and studies.
   B.   Order:
      1.   Following the completion of any procedures, investigations or
studies as described in subsection A of this Section, the Village may issue an
order which may:
         a.   Require compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         b.   Control the discharge to the POTW to ensure compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements;
         c.   Require the development of a compliance schedule for the
installation of technology required to meet applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements and the submission of all notices and self-monitoring reports
as are necessary to assess and assure compliance by users with pretreatment
standards and requirements, including, but not limited to, the reports required
by 40 CFR section 403.12.
      2.   If the Village has sufficient information at the time of the
compliance meeting to determine necessary and desirable compliance measures, it
may, at the time of the compliance meeting, issue an order directing and
requiring the user to take such action, including pretreatment, without further
investigation or study.
      3.   Failure to comply with the order of the Village shall be deemed a
violation of this Chapter and may be grounds for revocation of the user's
wastewater discharge permit and grounds for such other actions as may be
authorized for a violation of this Title. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Conditions For Revocation: Any user who violates this Chapter, an order
issued pursuant to Section
13-6-9 of this Chapter, the Illinois Environmental Protection Act, or the
Federal Act, or regulations promulgated under either act, or any of the
following is subject to having its wastewater discharge permit revoked in
accordance with the procedures of this Section:
      1.   Failure of any user to fully and accurately report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of its wastewater discharge, as determined by
the user's or the Village's analysis;
      2.   Failure of the user to fully and accurately report significant
changes in process activity which could affect its wastewater discharge or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      3.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises by Village
representatives for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
      4.   Tampering with, disrupting or destroying POTW equipment;
      5.   Failure to report an accidental discharge of a pollutant;
      6.   Failure to report an upset of the user's treatment facilities; or
      7.   Violations of any condition of the wastewater discharge permit.
   B.   Procedures For Revocation:
      1.   The Village may order any user who causes or allows any action which
is subject to revocation under subsection A of this Section to show cause
before the Board of Trustees why its wastewater discharge permit should not be
revoked. A notice shall be served on the user, specifying the time and place of
a hearing to be held by or on behalf of the Board of Trustees regarding the
violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed action and
directing the user to show cause why its wastewater discharge permit should not
be revoked. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten (10) days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation.
      2.   The Board of Trustees may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence or may designate any of its members or its attorney to:
         a.   Issue, in the name of the Board, notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
         b.   Take the evidence;
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Board for
action thereon.
      3.   At any hearing held pursuant to this Title, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically or by tape recording. The transcript
of said hearing will be made available to any member of the public or any party
to the hearing upon payment of the usual copying charges therefor.
      4.   After the Board of Trustees has reviewed the evidence, it may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing either: that the
wastewater discharge permit be revoked and the service disconnected; or that
following a specified time, the wastewater discharge permit shall be revoked
and sewer service discontinued, unless adequate treatment facilities, devices
or other related appurtenances have been installed and operated properly to
comply with the wastewater discharge permit; or direct the user to cease the
unauthorized discharge effective after a specified period of time; or that such
other action as deemed necessary by the Board to abate the discharge done by
the user. Further orders and directives as are necessary may be issued.
      5.   Following an order of revocation of its wastewater discharge permit,
the industrial user shall cease discharging to the POTW in accordance with the
terms of said order. Failure to do so shall be prima facie evidence of
continuing harm to the POTW and provide grounds for the granting of injunctive
relief or temporary restraining orders. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-11: IMMEDIATE DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Conditions For Immediate Disconnection Of Service: Any user is subject
to immediate disconnection of service under either of the following conditions:
      1.   Whenever immediate disconnection is required to halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to the
Superintendent to present an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons; or
      2.   Whenever the user's wastewater discharge permit is revoked.
   B.   Procedures For Immediate Disconnection: Notwithstanding Sections
13-6-9 and
13-6-10 of this Chapter, the Superintendent shall have the authority, after
informal notice to the user, to immediately and effectively halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW that reasonably appears to present an
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. When the
Superintendent determines that such an emergency situation exists, he/she shall
issue a verbal order (followed immediately by a written order) to the user,
stating the problem and requiring immediate cessation of the discharge. The
Superintendent's actions may include the disconnection of wastewater collection
service. The Superintendent shall obtain the concurrence of the Village
Attorney before initiating action. Methods of informal notice shall include,
but not be limited to, any of the following: personal conversation between the
user and the POTW employees, telephone calls, letters, hand- delivered messages
or notices posted at the user's premises or point of discharge.
   C.   Right To Request Hearing: Any user which is disconnected pursuant to
this Section shall have the right to request a hearing before the Board of
Trustees of the Village, at which time the user shall be given the opportunity
to show cause as to why it should not be disconnected from the Village's
wastewater collection system. Such hearings shall commence within seven (7)
days after a written request for the hearing is received by the Village
President. Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures
contained in Section
13-6-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-12: ELIMINATION OF DISCHARGE; REINSTATEMENT:
Any user notified of a disconnection of the wastewater service under Section
13-6-11 of this Chapter and/or revocation of its wastewater discharge permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of
the user to comply voluntarily with the disconnection or revocation order, the
Village shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate blockage
or severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW
system or danger to any person. If the Superintendent exercises his/her
authority under Section
13-6-11 of this Chapter, the Superintendent shall reinstate the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-13: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   A.   The Village may institute a civil action for an injunction to restrain
violations of this Chapter.
   B.   The Village may, upon discovering an ongoing or potential discharge of
pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to present an imminent danger
to the health or welfare of persons, seek and obtain from the Circuit Court of
Lake or McHenry County a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction
to halt or prohibit such discharge. Prior to the filing of such petition, the
discharger shall be given an informal notice of the Village's intention to file
such action. Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to,
any of the following: personal conversation between discharger and the POTW
employees, telephone calls, letters, hand-delivered messages or notices posted
at the discharger's premises or point of discharge. Personal contact between
the POTW personnel and the discharger shall be attempted but shall not be a
condition precedent to the Village petitioning for obtaining a temporary
restraining order. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-14: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to remedies available to the Village set forth elsewhere in
this Title, if the Village is fined by the State of Illinois or the USEPA for a
violation of the POTW's NPDES permit or a violation of water quality standards
as the result of the discharge of pollutants, then the fine, including all
Village legal, sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs,
shall be charged to the responsible industrial user. Such charge shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies the Village may have under
this Title, statutes and regulations, at law or in equity.
   B.   If the discharge from any user causes a deposit, obstruction or damage
to any part of the POTW wastewater facility, the Village may cause the deposit
or obstruction to be removed or cause the damage to be repaired. The cost for
such work, including materials, labor and supervision, shall be borne by the
person or user causing such deposit, obstruction or damage.
   C.   The remedies provided in this Title shall not be exclusive, and the
Village may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by statute, at law or
in equity, against any person or user violating the provisions of this Title.
   D.   In addition to any fine levied, the village may, where the
circumstances of the particular case so dictate, seek injunctive relief to
prohibit the user from discharging into the sanitary sewer system or to provide
such other affirmative relief as may be appropriate. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-15: PENALTIES AND COSTS:
Any user who is found to have violated an order of the village or who has
failed to comply with any provision of this chapter or title and the orders,
rules and regulations and wastewater discharge permits issued hereunder shall
be fined and shall be subject to such other penalties for each violation as
specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. For the purpose of this section, each day in which any such
violation shall occur shall be deemed a separate violation; and a separate
violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each constituent which has
limitations listed in this title found to exceed the limits established in this
title during any such day. In addition to the fine(s) and other penalties
provided herein, the village may recover its attorney fees to the extent
permitted by law, court costs, court reporter fees and other expenses of
litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated
this title or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
13-6-16: FALSIFICATION:
Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this title or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this title, shall be subject to the
penalties and costs provided in section
13-6-15 of this chapter and shall, in addition, be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00). (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-17: JURISDICTION:
This title shall apply to the village and to persons outside the village who
are, by contract or agreement with the village, users of the POTW. (Ord. 98-O-
07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-18: RIGHT OF REVISION:
The village may from time to time amend, and/or supplement the rules and
regulations of this title. Any such amendments and/or supplemental rules and
regulations which are promulgated after the effective date of this title shall
be incorporated and made a part of this title as if fully set forth herein. In
the event of a conflict between any of the rules and regulations contained in
this title and subsequent amendments and/or supplemental rules and regulations
made hereto, the later amendments and/or supplemental rules and regulations
shall prevail.
The village reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW by amendments to this title. (Ord. 98-O-
07, 3-3-1998)
13-6-19: DISCHARGE BY WASTEWATER HAULER PROHIBITED:
No waste, including, but not limited to, septage and sludge, shall be
transported or conveyed for treatment or disposed to the POTW's treatment plant
by means other than the village's sewer system, and no waste haulers shall
deposit waste into said system. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 7
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROLS
SECTION:
13-7-1: Water System
13-7-2: Cross Connection Prohibited
13-7-3: Survey And Investigations Of Possible Cross Connections; Inspection Of
Cross Connection Control Devices
13-7-4: Where Protection Against Cross Connection Is Required
13-7-5: Backflow Prevention Device Required
13-7-6: Backflow Prevention Device Inspection And Maintenance
13-7-7: Booster Pumps
13-7-8: Certification Fee
13-7-9: Compliance Required
13-7-10: Disconnection Of Service
13-7-1: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system within the village shall be considered as made up of
two (2) parts: the public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system up to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-7-2: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the public water supply enters the public
water supply unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
superintendent of water and sewers and the IEPA.
   B.   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any arrangement or connection by which a pollutant or
contaminant may enter the public water supply.
   C.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where cross connection control devices
or methods which meet the requirements of this title and any applicable state
law or regulation are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   D.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the village or
the IEPA. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-7-3: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE CROSS CONNECTIONS; INSPECTION OF
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water and sewers to cause
a survey to be made of properties served by the public water supply to
determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may
exist. This survey shall be an inventory of water uses by service connection
and is not intended to include a visual inspection of piping or plumbing
systems. Surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and
shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or as often as the
superintendent of water and sewers shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
   B.   The superintendent of water and sewers or his/her designated CCCDI may
inspect the premises of all consumers to ascertain the presence or absence of
cross connections within the premises, to inspect and test cross connection
control devices within the premises and for the purposes of verifying
information submitted pursuant to this title. If the owners or occupants of the
premises do not voluntarily allow the superintendent or his/her designated
CCCDI ready access upon presentation of credentials at reasonable times to all
parts of said premises for the purpose of inspecting, sampling, examining and
photocopying records required to be kept by this title and the performance of
their other duties, then the superintendent or his/her designated CCCDI is
authorized to petition any court having competent jurisdiction, through the
village attorney, for the issuance of a warrant or order authorizing such
inspection, sampling, examination and photocopying and the performance of any
of their other duties. If the superintendent or his/her designated CCCDI finds
that it is necessary to conduct sampling and monitoring operations, the
superintendent shall request the permission from the consumer to set up such
devices. If the consumer refuses to grant such permission, the superintendent
or CCCDI shall apply to the appropriate court, through the village attorney,
for a warrant or order which will allow such devices to be set up on the
premises.
   C.   Water consumers which are commercial, institutional or industrial
establishments shall conduct annual surveys of water use practices on the
consumer's premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross
connections to the consumer's water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public water supply system. All cross
connection control or other plumbing inspections must be conducted in
accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1) as now or hereafter
amended. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
   D.   The consumer shall prevent backflow into the public water system by
ensuring that:
      1.   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
      2.   Cross connection control devices are installed in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross connection control devices are inspected at least annually by
a CCCDI. The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   All cross connection control devices shall be tested and records
made and maintained as follows:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at least annually by the village's
CCCDI, and the fee established for such annual certification shall be billed in
six (6) equal installments at the same time as, but in addition to, bimonthly
basic service charge billing to each user.
         b.   Records submitted to the village shall be available for
inspection by village personnel and IEPA personnel in accordance with 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4(e) as now or hereafter amended.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of the CCCDI, and the type of and date of repairs, if any.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (5)   Service performed and date completed. (Ord. 99-O-17, 9-7-
1999)
13-7-4: WHERE PROTECTION AGAINST CROSS CONNECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving premises where because of operations upon or
the use of the premises there is an actual or potential hazard that a
contaminant, pollutant or other substance which may affect the potability of
the public water supply may flow from the service line directly or indirectly
into the public water supply system. For the purposes of this chapter, the
phrase "an approved backflow device" shall mean one of the devices indicated
for this purpose as specified in the Illinois plumbing code, as amended from
time to time (77 Illinois administrative code 890).
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the village administrator and the
source is approved by the IEPA.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the village administrator.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to determine
whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a history of two (2) or more cross connections being
established or reestablished within a ten (10) year period.
   C.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system service, including, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      2.   Laboratories;
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      6.   Chemical plants;
      7.   Metal plating industries;
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      9.   Car washes; and
      10.   Commercial or industrial establishments which process or
manufacture materials that are considered to be contaminants or pollutants.
(Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-7-5: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE REQUIRED:
When a backflow prevention device is required, the type of device shall be as
follows:
   A.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
   B.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a pollutant, contaminant or
other substance that could cause a system hazard or a health hazard.
   C.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water system may be contaminated or polluted with substances that could
cause a hazard not dangerous to health.
   D.   Where the public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall
be installed on fire sprinkler systems connected to the public water supply
when:
      1.   The sprinkler system contains antifreeze;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
sprinkler system.
   E.   The type of protection required unless otherwise specified in this
section shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-7-6: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which a
backflow prevention device required by this chapter is installed to have the
backflow device inspected, tested, maintained and repaired in accordance with
the following schedule or as specified in the manufacturer's manual if the
manual provides for more frequent inspections, testing or maintenance:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer,
and required service performed within five (5) days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
IEPA as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are found to
be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the consumer
within five (5) days, provided that if the device cannot be repaired or
replaced within five (5) days because of unavailability of parts, materials or
labor, it shall be repaired or replaced as soon thereafter as possible.
Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative, removed or
otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the superintendent
of water and sewers. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-7-7: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the superintendent of
water and sewers at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 98-O-
07, 3-3-1998)
13-7-8: CERTIFICATION FEE:
   A.   Annual Certification Fee: The annual fees for certification of required
cross connection control devices shall be as specified from time to time in
section
1-10-7 of this code.
   B.   Bimonthly Payment Of Certification Fees: The annual certification fee
for a premises shall be included as part of the bimonthly billing period for
each cross connection control device certified. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
13-7-9: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Consumers must comply with this chapter in order to continue to receive
water service from the public water supply system.
   B.   If the public water supply is contaminated or polluted by back siphoned
material or backflow, then if the contamination or pollution occurs through an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired backflow prevention device, or
because a backflow prevention device has been bypassed, then the consumer
responsible shall, in addition to any fines or other amounts due, pay to the
village any and all costs incurred in removing the contaminant or pollutant
from the public water supply system, including the cost of effecting compliance
with and enforcing this chapter. (Ord. 98-O-07, 3-3-1998)
13-7-10: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Violation Of Provisions: The premises of a consumer who violates a
provision of this chapter may be disconnected from the public water supply
system as provided in this section.
   B.   Procedures For Immediate Disconnection:
      1.   Prevention Of Health Hazard: Any consumer is subject to having the
consumer's premises immediately disconnected from the public water supply
system whenever immediate disconnection is required to halt or prevent any
pollutant or contaminant from flowing from the premises into the public water
supply system which reasonably appears to the superintendent of water and
sewers to present a severe health hazard.
      2.   Authority; Notice To Consumer: The superintendent of water and
sewers shall have the authority, after informal notice to the consumer, to
immediately and effectively halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants or
contaminants to the public water supply system that reasonably appears to
present a severe health hazard. When the superintendent determines that such an
emergency situation exists, he/she shall issue a verbal order (followed
immediately by a written order) to the consumer, stating the problem and
requiring immediate cessation of the discharge. The superintendent's actions
may include the disconnection of water service. The superintendent shall obtain
the concurrence of the village attorney before initiating the action. Methods
of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
personal conversation between the consumer and village employees, telephone
calls, letters, hand delivered messages or notices posted at the user's
premises or point of discharge.
      3.   Right To Request Hearing: Any consumer which is disconnected
pursuant to this section shall have the right to request a hearing before the
village president, at which time the consumer shall be given the opportunity to
show cause as to why it should not be disconnected from the public water supply
system. Such hearings shall commence within seven (7) days after a written
request for the hearing is received by the village president. Such hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures contained in this section.
   C.   Procedures For Disconnection In Nonemergency Situations:
      1.   The superintendent of water and sewers may order any consumer who
causes or allows any condition to occur which violates the provisions of this
chapter to show cause before the village president why the premises where the
condition occurred should not be disconnected from the public water supply
system. A notice shall be served on the consumer specifying the time and place
of a hearing regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be
taken, the proposed action and directing the consumer to show cause why the
premises should not be disconnected. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, at
least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or
officer of a corporation.
      2.   The village president may conduct the hearing and take the evidence
or may designate the village attorney to:
         a.   Issue notices of hearings requesting the attendance and testimony
of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in
such hearing;
         b.   Take the evidence;
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the village
president for action thereon.
      3.   After the village president has reviewed the evidence, he/she may
issue an order to the consumer directing either: that the premises be
disconnected from the public water supply system; or that following a specified
time, the premises shall be disconnected and water service discontinued, unless
the condition causing the violation is corrected.
      4.   Following an order to disconnect, the superintendent of water and
sewers shall cause whatever action is needed to be taken in order to disconnect
the consumer's premises from the public water supply system.
   D.   Restoration Of Water Service: If water service to premises is
disconnected pursuant to this chapter, water service shall not be restored to
the premises until such time as the condition which caused the violation is
corrected and a reconnection fee as specified from time to time in section
1-10-7 of this code is paid to the village. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 8
GROUND WATER PROTECTION REGULATIONS; CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE CONTROLS
SECTION:
13-8-1: Abbreviations And Definitions
13-8-2: Purpose, Applicability And Administration
13-8-3: Release Of Chemical Substances Prohibited
13-8-4: Reporting Requirements Of A Release Of A Chemical Substance
13-8-5: Remediation Of Releases
13-8-6: Chemical Substance Storage Permit Required
13-8-7: Applications For Chemical Substance Storage Permits
13-8-8: Release Prevention, Containment And Control Plan
13-8-9: Chemical Substance Storage Permit Issuance, Duration And Contents
13-8-10: Appeals Of Decisions Relating To The Issuance Of A Chemical Substance
Storage Permit
13-8-11: Modification Of Chemical Substance Storage Permits
13-8-12: Transfer And Assignment Of Chemical Substance Storage Permits
13-8-13: Enforcement
13-8-14: Violations Of State And Federal Water Quality Standards
13-8-15: Revocation Of Chemical Substance Storage Permit
13-8-16: False Information Or Statements
13-8-17: Penalties And Liability For Costs
13-8-1: ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
CFR: Code of federal regulations.
   B.   Except as stated in this chapter, and unless a different meaning of a
word or term is clear from the context, the definitions of words or terms in
this chapter shall have the meanings hereinafter designated and shall be the
same as those used in the Illinois environmental protection act and the
Illinois groundwater protection act 1 , as amended from time to time. If there
is any conflict between the definition set forth in this chapter and the
definition in the Illinois environmental protection act or the Illinois
groundwater protection act, the statutory definition shall govern. Where there
is a reference to a provision of the CFR or any other state or federal statute
or regulation, the reference shall include any subsequent amendment to such
statute or regulation and to include any statute or regulation which is
intended to replace or supersede the referenced statute or regulation.
    CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE: Any "extremely hazardous substance" listed in appendix
A of 40 CFR part 355; any "hazardous substance" listed in 40 CFR section 302.4;
any petroleum product including crude oil or any fraction thereof, herbicides,
pesticides, and fertilizers, and any of the following chemicals, metals and
compounds:
1,1,1-trichloroethane
1,1,2-trichloroethane
1,1-dichloroethylene
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
1,2-dichloroethane
1,2-dichloropropane
2,4,5-TP (silvex)
2,4-D alachlor (lasso)
Aldicarb
Aldicarb sulfone
Aldicarb sulfoxide
Aldrin
Antifreeze
Antimony
Arsenic
Atrazine
Barium
Benzene
Benzo (A) pyrene
Beryllium
BHC-gamma (lindane)
Cadmium
Carbofuran
Carbon tetrachloride
Chlordane
Chromium
CIS 1.2-dichloroethylene
Cutting oils
Cyanide
Dalapon
DI(2-ethylhexyl) - adipate
DI(2-ethylhexyl) - phthalate
Dibromochloropropane (DBCP)
Dichloromethane
Dieldrindinoseb
Diquat
Endothall
Endrin
Ethylbenzene
Ethylene dibromide
Fluoride
Heptachlor
Heptachlor epoxide
Hexachloro-cyclopentadiene
Hexachlorobenzene
Leachate
Mercury
Methoxychlor
Mineral oil
Monochlorobenzene
O-dichlorobenzene
Oxamyl (vydate)
P-dichlorobenzene
Pentachlorophenol
Picloram
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB)
Selenium
Simazine
Styrene
Tetrachloroethylene
Thallium
Toluene
Toxaphene
Trans-1,2-dichloroethylene
Trichloroethylenexylene
CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMIT: An authorization by the village for a person
to store, handle, use, or produce a chemical substance in excess of ten (10)
pounds or five (5) gallons.
CONTAINMENT DEVICE: A device that is designed to contain a release, retain it
for cleanup, and prevent released materials from penetrating into the ground.
FACILITY: The buildings and all real property contiguous thereto, and the
equipment at a single location used for the conduct of business.
GROUND WATER: Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
OCCUPANT: Any person who leases or rents from an owner or who otherwise has the
right to occupy a site, facility or unit or part of a site, facility or unit,
or the land on which the site, facility or unit is located.
OPERATOR: Any person in control of or having responsibility for daily operation
of a facility.
OWNER: Any person who owns a site, facility or unit or part of a site, facility
or unit, or who owns the land on which the site, facility or unit is located.
Where real property is subject to a leasehold, the term owner includes both the
lessor and the lessee.
PERSON: Any individual person, corporation, firm, association, joint venture,
trust, partnership, unit of local government that is subject to the regulatory
authority of the village as exercised in this chapter or other legal entity
that is subject to the regulatory authority of the village as exercised in this
chapter.
PREMISES: The site, facility or unit and the land or leasehold on which the
site, facility or unit where a chemical substance has been or is being stored
or where a release of a chemical substance has occurred. If the release occurs
from a vehicle on a public right of way, then the term "premises" as used in
this chapter shall mean the vehicle from which the release occurred.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging, escaping, leaching, or
disposing of a chemical substance into a containment device, into the air, into
the ground water, surface water, surface soils or subsurface soils, or into
sanitary or storm sewers. Releases do not include: intentional withdrawals of
chemical substances for the purpose of legitimate sale, use, or disposal; and
discharges permitted under federal, state, or local law.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Illinois.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The village of Lake Barrington village administrator, or
his written designee. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/14 et seq.
13-8-2: PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the environment in general,
and ground water and surface water, in particular, from pollution and to
protect the village's potable water supply from contamination.
   B.   This chapter applies to all persons who own or who occupy real property
in the village of Lake Barrington or real property which is provided with
potable water by the village of Lake Barrington, and all such real property.
The owner(s) and occupant(s) of real property subject to this chapter are
jointly and severally responsible for complying with the applicable provisions
of this chapter. The failure of an owner or occupant of real property to comply
with the requirements of this chapter shall not be excused because of a lack of
knowledge as to such requirements or their applicability.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the village administrator
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
village administrator, the village administrator's designees, and any other
person who is a peace officer or a conservator of the peace shall have the
authority to issue citations or sign complaints on behalf of the village for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to
or duties imposed on the village administrator by this chapter may be delegated
by the village administrator to other employees, officers or agents of the
village.
   D.   Compliance with this chapter does not necessarily ensure that no
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants will occur, and the ultimate
legal responsibility for any such pollution or unauthorized discharge of
pollutants shall be and remain the responsibility of the person causing or
permitting the discharge of such pollutants, and the owner and occupants of the
premises from which such pollutants are released. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-3: RELEASE OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or recklessly release any
chemical substance or combination of chemical substances in such a manner or at
such a location where, unless remediated, there is a reasonable possibility
that the chemical substance will come into contact with or be absorbed into
ground water or will enter into the village's potable water supply system.
(Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-4: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS OF A RELEASE OF A CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE:
   A.   Whenever there is any release of a chemical substance or combination of
chemical substances that exceeds more than ten (10) pounds in weight or five
(5) gallons in volume in such a manner or at such a location where, unless
remediated, there is a reasonable possibility that the chemical substance will
come into contact with or be absorbed into ground water or will enter into the
village's potable water supply system, the owner and the occupant of the
premises where the release occurred shall immediately notify the village
administrator and provide the following information:
      1.   Any and all actions that have been and are intended to be taken to
halt the release of the chemical substance.
      2.   An estimate of the quantity of the chemical substance released.
      3.   The methods that are to be used to clean up and otherwise remediate
the chemical substance that was released.
   B.   The notification provided for in subsection A of this section must be
given even if the release would not constitute a violation of this chapter. The
initial notification of a chemical substance release may be made by telephoning
the village administrator or the village's police department. If initial
notification of a release is made by telephone or other oral communication,
then a written notification of the release containing the information required
under subsection A of this section must be made to the village administrator no
later than forty eight (48) hours after the release occurred or was first
discovered, whichever occurs last.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to give the notification of
a release of a chemical substance or combination of chemical substances as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-5: REMEDIATION OF RELEASES:
   A.   If a release occurs for which notification is required under this
chapter, then the owner and occupant of the premises where the release
occurred, shall be required to submit a plan to the village for the remediation
of the release. Such plan must be submitted to the village within the time
period specified by the village administrator, but no later than seven (7) days
after the date on which the release was first discovered to have occurred.
   B.   Following the submission of the remediation plan provided for in
subsection A of this section, the village administrator shall schedule a
conference with the person(s) who submitted the remediation plan. The purpose
of the conference shall be to discuss and establish the procedures,
investigations, studies and compliance measures that the village deems
necessary in order to control and prevent any chemical substances from coming
into contact with or being absorbed into ground water or entering into the
village's potable water supply system as a result of the release. Following the
conference, the village administrator shall issue a "remediation order" which
sets forth in writing the steps which the owner and any occupants of the
premises on which the release occurred must take in order to remediate the
release and the time periods within which such steps must be taken.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of premises on which a
release has occurred to fail to comply with a remediation order.
   D.   The owner and occupant of any premises on which a release has occurred
shall be jointly and severally liable to reimburse the village for any costs
and expenses which the village may incur as the result of the release. Payment
of any such costs and expenses must be made to the village not more than forty
five (45) days after the date that the village issues an invoice for the costs
and expenses.
   E.   If an owner or occupant fails to comply with a remediation order, or if
it otherwise becomes reasonably necessary for the village to remediate the
effects of a release in order to prevent a chemical substance from coming into
contact with or being absorbed into ground water or will enter into the
village's potable water supply system or to eliminate a chemical substance from
the ground water or the village's potable water supply, then the village may
take whatever steps it determines in the reasonable exercise of its discretion
are necessary to remediate. The owner and any occupants of the premises on
which the release of the chemical substance occurred and any other person who
caused the release of the chemical substance or the contamination of the ground
water or the village's potable water supply with the chemical substance shall
be jointly and severally liable to reimburse the village for the cost of any
such remediation work performed by or on behalf of the village. Such
reimbursement shall be made not less than forty five (45) days after the
village issues an invoice for the cost of the remediation work. (Ord. 2006-O-
10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-6: CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Except as provided in subsections B and C of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to store chemical substances which weigh more than ten
(10) pounds or have a volume of more than five (5) gallons in any single
container without first obtaining a chemical substance storage permit from the
village administrator.
   B.   The permit requirements contained in subsection A of this section shall
not apply to the following:
      1.   Fuel tanks that have been issued a license by the Illinois or United
States department of transportation.
      2.   Fuel tanks and fluid reservoirs which are attached to motor vehicles
licensed by the federal or a state government and which are used in the
operation of such vehicles.
      3.   Fuel containers and fluid reservoirs that are attached to lawn or
yard maintenance equipment and which are used in the operation of such
equipment.
      4.   Fuel containers that are attached to or associated with watercraft
and which are used in the operation of the watercraft.
   C.   The permit requirements contained in subsection A of this section do
not apply to the owner or occupant of premises used for residential purposes
with respect to chemical substances stored or maintained on the premises that
are being stored by the owner or occupant of the premises for the owner's or
occupant's own use, provided: 1) that the chemical substances stored or
maintained are not used or intended to be used in connection with a business
and 2) are intended to be used on the premises where they are being stored.
(Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-7: APPLICATIONS FOR CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMITS:
   A.   Persons required to obtain a chemical substance storage permit shall
submit to the village administrator a permit application containing the
following information:
      1.   Description of activities, facilities, and processes on the premises
to be covered by the permit, including a list of the chemical substances to be
used or stored on the premises to be covered by the permit;
      2.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation;
      3.   Site plans, floor plans;
      4.   A release prevention, containment and control plan as described in
section
13-8-8 of this chapter; and
      5.   Such other information as the village administrator in the
reasonable exercise of his discretion determines is required in order to be
able to evaluate whether a chemical substance storage permit should be issued
and what, if any, conditions should be attached to the permit.
   B.   If the village provides a form for the application for a chemical
substance storage permit, the application for a chemical substance storage
permit must be submitted using the village application form.
   C.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications shall be returned to the
applicant for correction prior to review and action by the village
administrator.
   D.   All chemical substance storage permit applications must be signed by
the owner or occupant of the premises where the chemical substances are to be
stored or an authorized agent of such owner or occupant. Applications shall
include the following certification statement:
I certify that the information contained in the attached application for a
Chemical Substance Storage Permit is, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
true, accurate, and complete, and that I understand that the submission of
false or inaccurate information is unlawful and will subject me to being fined.
(Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-8: RELEASE PREVENTION, CONTAINMENT AND CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   Each application for a chemical substance storage permit shall be
accompanied by a release prevention, containment and control plan for the
premises where the chemical substances are to be stored. The release
prevention, containment and control plan shall include, at a minimum, the
following components:
      1.   Emergency contact information;
      2.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises;
      3.   Description of stored chemical substances, locations, and
quantities;
      4.   Description of chemical substance disposal practices;
      5.   Procedures for immediately notifying the village administrator of
any release as required by section
13-8-4 of this chapter; and
      6.   Procedures to prevent accidental releases and to eliminate or
minimize adverse impacts from accidental releases. Such procedures include, but
are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of chemical substances, loading and unloading operations, control of
plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or
equipment, measures for containing chemical substances, and/or measures and
equipment for emergency response.
   B.   The release prevention, containment and control plan shall also contain
such additional information and components which the village administrator
determines in the reasonable exercise of his discretion, are necessary in order
to provide a plan of action which will protect against chemical substances from
coming into contact with or being absorbed into ground water or entering into
the village's potable water supply system and/or which will reduce the
likelihood that an accidental release of chemical substances might occur.
   C.   After the issuance of the initial permit allowing the storage of
chemical substances on a premises, the release prevention, containment and
control plan shall be updated not less than once every three (3) years. The
updated release prevention, containment and control plan shall be submitted to
the village administrator, for the village administrator's review and approval.
The village administrator, may in the reasonable exercise of his discretion,
require that a release prevention, containment and control plan for a premises
be updated more frequently than once every three (3) years if he determines
that the release prevention, containment and control plan needs to be updated
in order to protect against chemical substances from coming into contact with
or being absorbed into ground water or entering into the village's potable
water supply system and/or in order to reduce the likelihood that an accidental
release of chemical substances might occur. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-9: CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMIT ISSUANCE, DURATION AND CONTENTS:
   A.   The village administrator shall review each chemical substance storage
permit application in consultation with the village engineer and within forty
five (45) days of receipt of a complete permit application, the village
administrator shall issue a decision as to whether the chemical substance
storage permit should be issued. The reasons the village administrator may
refuse to issue a chemical substance storage permit include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   The permit application is incomplete or inaccurate.
      2.   The proposed release prevention, containment and control plan does
not meet the requirements of section
13-8-8 of this chapter or will not provide adequate protection against chemical
substances coming into contact with or being absorbed into ground water or
entering into the village's potable water supply system or does not adequately
reduce the likelihood that an accidental release of chemical substances might
occur.
      3.   The storage of the chemical substance for which permission to store
is being sought will create an unacceptable risk to the public health if stored
on the premises in the application in the manner described in the application.
If the village administrator refuses to issue the chemical substance storage
permit, he shall inform the applicant in writing of the reasons the chemical
substance storage permit was not issued.
   B.   The duration of a chemical substance storage permit shall be determined
by the village administrator, provided that no chemical substance storage
permit shall have a duration of more than three (3) years from the effective
date of the permit. The village administrator may issue a chemical substance
storage permit which has a duration of less than three (3) years if: 1) the
period of time that the chemical substance will be stored on the premises
described in the permit application is to be less than three (3) years; or 2)
the storage of the chemical substance presents a potential hazard which
requires that the premises covered by the permit be inspected or that the
release prevention, containment and control plan for the premises covered by
the permit be reviewed and updated more frequently than once every three (3)
years.
   C.   A chemical substance storage permit shall include those conditions
which the village administrator determines are reasonably necessary to protect
against the release of the chemical substances covered by the permit. A
chemical substance storage permit shall also include the following:
      1.   The expiration date of the permit.
      2.   A description of the premises for which the permit is being issued.
      3.   A statement that the permit is not transferable to a new permittee
unless the transfer is approved as provided in section
13-8-12 of this chapter.
      4.   A list of the chemical substances which the permit allows to be
stored on the premises described in the permit.
      5.   A statement that any release of a chemical substance must be
reported immediately as provided in section
13-8-4 of this chapter.
      6.   A statement that the permit is conditioned upon compliance with the
release prevention, containment and control plan.
   D.   There shall be no application fee for a chemical substance storage
permit. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-10: APPEALS OF DECISIONS RELATING TO THE ISSUANCE OF A CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE
STORAGE PERMIT:
   A.   If the village administrator denies an application for a chemical
substance storage permit, the applicant may file a written request for
reconsideration of the decision by the village administrator. The request for
reconsideration shall state in detail the reasons why the applicant believes
the decision denying the application for a chemical substance storage permit
should be reconsidered and the permit should be issued. The request for
reconsideration shall be filed with the village clerk.
   B.   The village administrator shall provide notice of the issuance of a
chemical substance storage permit by posting a notice of the issuance of the
permit in the building where the office of the village clerk is located and by
publishing a notice in a newspaper which has a general circulation within the
village. Any person residing in the village, any person who owns or occupies
real property that is connected to the village's potable water supply system
and the applicant shall be entitled to request in writing that the village
administrator reconsider the terms and conditions contained in a chemical
substance storage permit by filing the request with the village clerk. Any
request for reconsideration must state the conditions or terms in the permit
which the person making the request wants to be modified. The request for
reconsideration may also request that the permit not be issued or that
additional conditions be included in the permit. Any request for
reconsideration shall state in detail the reasons the request for
reconsideration is being made.
   C.   Any request for the reconsideration of the issuance or denial of a
permit must be made not more than thirty (30) days after the date notice of the
issuance of the permit is published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village as provided in subsection B of this section. If no request for
reconsideration is filed with the village clerk within such thirty (30) day
time period, the decision to issue the permit shall become final for purposes
of judicial review.
   D.   If a request for reconsideration of the issuance of a chemical
substance storage permit is made by a person other than the applicant, then the
village administrator shall promptly notify the applicant by sending a copy of
the request for reconsideration to the applicant along with a notice stating
that the applicant has seven (7) days from the date of the notice to file a
written response to the request for reconsideration with the village clerk.
   E.   If the village administrator fails to act on a request for
reconsideration within thirty (30) days after the request for reconsideration
is filed, then the request for reconsideration shall be considered to have been
denied, provided that the village administrator may extend for a period not to
exceed ninety (90) days the time within which the village administrator will
decide whether to grant or deny the petition for reconsideration. Any decision
by the village administrator to deny a request for reconsideration shall
constitute a final decision for purposes of judicial review. (Ord. 2006-O-10,
4-4-2006)
13-8-11: MODIFICATION OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMITS:
   A.   The village administrator may modify a chemical substance storage
permit for any of the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any requirements resulting from a new or revised
federal, state or local law, ordinance, rule or regulation.
      2.   To take into account any technological developments.
      3.   To take into account any new information relating to the storage or
potential dangers or hazards of the chemical substances allowed to be stored
under the chemical substance storage permit.
      4.   To take into consideration and address any substantial alterations
or additions to the operations or activities which occur on the premises
covered by the chemical substance storage permit that have occurred since the
date the permit was issued.
      5.   Because of a violation of this chapter or another applicable law,
rule or regulation, or because of a failure to comply with a term or condition
contained in the chemical substance storage permit.
      6.   To correct typographical or other errors in the chemical substance
storage permit or in the release prevention, containment and control plan.
      7.   To correct misrepresentations or the failure to disclose information
in the application for the chemical substance storage permit.
      8.   To reflect a transfer in the ownership or occupancy of the premises
covered by the chemical substance storage permit, provided that the transfer
has been approved as provided in section
13-8-12 of this chapter.
      9.   To protect against chemical substances covered by the permit from
coming into contact with or being absorbed into ground water or entering into
the village's potable water supply system and/or in order to reduce the
likelihood that an accidental release of chemical substances might occur.
   B.   If the village administrator proposes to modify a chemical substance
storage permit, the village administrator shall notify the permit holder of the
modifications the village administrator proposes to make to the permit and the
reasons for the modifications. The permit holder shall be given not less than
thirty (30) days to respond in writing to the village administrator as to why
the modifications should not be made as proposed and to otherwise comment on
the proposed modifications.
   C.   If a chemical substances storage permit is modified as provided in this
section, the village administrator shall give notice of the modification in the
same manner provided for giving public notice of the issuance of permits in
subsection 13-8-10B of this chapter. Any person who occupies property that is
connected to the village's potable water supply system and the person to whom
the permit has been issued shall be entitled to request in writing that the
village administrator reconsider the terms and conditions contained in a
chemical substance storage permit by filing the request with the village clerk
as provided in subsection 13-8-10B of this chapter. The procedures set forth in
subsection 13-8-10B of this chapter applicable to the reconsideration of
decisions to issue a chemical substance storage permit shall be applicable to
requests for reconsideration of decisions to modify the conditions contained in
a chemical substance storage permit. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-12: TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENT OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMITS:
   A.   Chemical substance storage permits are valid only for the premises
described in the permit and for the permittee identified in the permit.
Chemical substance storage permits cannot be transferred or assigned without
the prior written approval of the village administrator. If the premises for
which a chemical substance storage permit has been issued is sold or otherwise
transferred to a new owner who will maintain the same operation in the same
premises, whether or not the seller will continue to operate the equipment or
the equipment is leased to another entity for its operation at the site of the
original permittee, then the permit held by the seller and/or owner shall be
reissued by the village to the new owner and/or operator as a temporary permit;
provided:
      1.   The new owner and/or operator notifies the village thirty (30)
calendar days in advance of the transaction, and
      2.   The new owner and/or operator confirms to the village, within twenty
four (24) business hours of the transaction, of completion of the sale or
execution of an operating contract, and
      3.   The new owner and/or operator immediately applies for a new permit
in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   A temporary permit shall be valid for a period of not more than ninety
(90) days. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If an alleged violation of this chapter occurs, the village
administrator shall send or otherwise cause a written "notice of violation" to
be delivered to the person alleged to have committed the violation. The "notice
of violation" shall describe the violation that is alleged to have occurred and
shall set a time and place for a compliance meeting. The compliance meeting
shall be attended by the village administrator and other appropriate
representatives of the village, the person alleged to have committed the
violation and any representatives or agents of the person alleged to have
committed the violation, provided that the failure of the person alleged to
have committed the violation and any of such person's representatives failure
or refusal to attend a scheduled compliance meeting shall not preclude the
compliance meeting from occurring. The purpose of such a meeting shall be to
establish the procedures, investigations, testing studies and compliance
measures as the village deems necessary and desirable to determine whether a
violation occurred, to control and prevent any further violations of this
chapter and to remediate the adverse effects of any prior violations. During
the compliance meeting the person alleged to have committed the violation shall
be given the opportunity to present evidence and otherwise explain why such
person is not responsible for the violation or should not be required to
remediate the adverse effects of the violation.
   B.   Following the completion of any procedures, testing, investigations or
studies provided for as a result of the compliance meeting or at such other
time as the village deems appropriate following the compliance meeting, the
village may issue an order which may require the person alleged to have
committed the violation to take certain steps as described in the order to
prevent violations from occurring in the future and/or to remediate adverse
effects resulting from the violation.
   C.   A failure to timely comply to an order issued in accordance with
subsection B of this section shall make the person to whom the order is
directed subject to fines and any other applicable penalties as provided for in
this code.
   D.   The enforcement procedures provided for in subsections A and B of this
section are not exclusive.
   E.   If there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, the village
shall be entitled to seek any remedy and to impose any penalty as may otherwise
be authorized by state law, by this code or by any other ordinance of the
village or which may otherwise be available to the village in law or in equity,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-14: VIOLATIONS OF STATE AND FEDERAL WATER QUALITY STANDARDS:
If the village is fined by the state of Illinois or the United States
environmental protection agency for a violation of water quality standards as
the result of a release, then the village shall, in addition to any other
remedy which may be available, also be entitled to recover from any person or
persons who caused the release or whose failure to comply with the requirements
of this chapter resulted in the occurrence of the release, the amount of any
such fine as well as any costs incurred by the village as a result of the
violation of the water quality standards, including, but not limited to, all
village legal, sampling and analytical testing costs. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-
2006)
13-8-15: REVOCATION OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE STORAGE PERMIT:
   A.   The village president, or his designee, may revoke a chemical substance
storage permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      1.   Failure to notify the village administrator of substantial changes
relating to the use or storage of chemical substances on the premises for which
the permit was issued prior to the occurrence of the change;
      2.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the chemical substance storage permit application;
      3.   Failure to pay fines;
      4.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      5.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business or
operation ownership of a permitted facility; or
      6.   Violation of any standard or requirement, or any terms of the
chemical substance storage permit or this chapter.
   B.   The village administrator may order any person whose chemical substance
storage permit is subject to revocation to show cause as to why the chemical
substance storage permit should not be revoked. A notice shall be served on the
offending person, specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the
village president at which the person to whom the chemical substance storage
permit has been issued shall show cause as to why the chemical substance
storage permit should not be revoked. The notice of the hearing shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, at
least ten (10) days before the hearing. The notice shall specify the reason or
reasons as to why the chemical substance storage permit is subject to
revocation.
   C.   The village president, or his designee, may conduct the hearing and
take the evidence or may designate a hearing officer to conduct the hearing.
The village president or hearing officer shall have the authority to:
      1.   Issue, in the name of the board, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      2.   Take the evidence;
If the hearing is conducted by a hearing officer, the hearing officer shall
transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts and other
evidence, together with the hearing officer's recommendation to the village
president as to whether the chemical substance storage permit should be
revoked.
   D.   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically or by tape recording. The transcript
of said hearing shall be made available to any member of the public or any
party to the hearing upon payment of the usual copying charges therefor. The
hearing shall be an informal hearing and the rules of evidence applicable in
courts of law shall not be applicable.
   E.   After the village president has reviewed the evidence, the village
president may issue an order to the offending person responsible for the
violation of this chapter directing either that the chemical substance storage
permit be revoked; or that following a specified time, the chemical substance
storage permit shall be revoked, unless adequate progress towards compliance is
accomplished; or direct the offending person to remove the chemical substances
from the premises within a specified period of time; or that such other action
as deemed necessary by the village president to abate the improper chemical
substance storage. Further orders and directives as are necessary may be
issued.
   F.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the village
administrator shall have the authority, after informal notice to the offending
person, to immediately and effectively halt or prevent any release of chemical
substances that reasonably appears to present an imminent danger to the
village's potable water supply or to the health, safety or welfare of the
public. When the village administrator determines that such an emergency
situation exists, he shall issue a verbal order (followed as soon thereafter as
is reasonably possible by a written order) to the person responsible for
creating the dangerous situation, stating the reason for the order and the
actions which must be taken to eliminate the reason for the emergency
situation. Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to, any
of the following: personal conversation between the responsible person and the
village administrator, telephone calls, letters, hand delivered messages or
notices posted at the responsible person's premises.
   G.   Any person who has their chemical substance storage permit revoked
pursuant to this section shall have the right to request to make a presentation
to the board of trustees of the village, at which time the person shall be
given the opportunity to explain why their permit should not be revoked.
Following the presentation, the board of trustees may request that the village
president reconsider the decision to revoke the chemical substance storage
permit. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-16: FALSE INFORMATION OR STATEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
required to be filed with the village under this chapter, including, but not
limited to, the application for a chemical substance storage permit or in any
document filed with the village or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-8-17: PENALTIES AND LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
Any person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter, shall
upon conviction be fined for each violation and be subject to other penalties
as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate violation. A separate violation shall be considered to
have occurred for each chemical substance that is improperly stored or is
released during any day. (Ord. 2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
CHAPTER 9
DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS TO STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
13-9-1: Abbreviations And Definitions
13-9-2: Applicability And Administration
13-9-3: Illegal Discharges And Illicit Connections Prohibited
13-9-4: Blocking Or Inhibiting Flow Of Water In Storm Water Drainage System
Prohibited
13-9-5: Reporting Requirements Of Illegal Discharge Of Pollutant
13-9-6: Remediation Of Illegal Discharges Of Pollutants
13-9-7: Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
13-9-8: Enforcement
13-9-9: Violations Of State And Federal Water Quality Standards
13-9-10: Compliance With NPDES Storm Water Discharge Permit Required
13-9-11: False Information Or Statements
13-9-12: Penalties And Liability For Costs
13-9-1: ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
CFR: Code of federal regulations.
NPDES: National pollution discharge elimination system.
   B.   Except as stated in this chapter, and unless a different meaning of a
word or term is clear from the context, the definitions of words or terms in
this chapter shall have the meanings hereinafter designated and shall be the
same as those used in the Illinois environmental protection act as amended from
time to time. Where there is a reference to a provision of the CFR or any other
state or federal statute or regulation, the reference shall include any
subsequent amendment to such statute or regulation and to include any statute
or regulation which is intended to replace or supersede the referenced statute
or regulation.
    DISCHARGE: Any spilling, leaking, emitting, releasing, discharging,
escaping, leaching, or disposing of a pollutant into the storm water drainage
system. Discharges do not include releases or discharges permitted under
federal, state, or local law.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect discharge to the storm water
drainage system that is not composed entirely of storm water, except as
follows:
      1.   The following types of discharges shall not constitute an illegal
discharge unless the discharge contains a pollutant:
         a.   Water line flushing and other discharges from a potable water
source.
         b.   Discharges resulting solely from landscape irrigation or lawn or
plant watering.
         c.   Diverted stream flows.
         d.   Rising ground water.
         e.   Ground water infiltration into the storm water drainage system.
         f.   Pumped ground water.
         g.   Discharges from foundation or footing drains.
         h.   Discharges from crawl space pumps.
         i.   Discharges resulting from air conditioning condensations.
         j.   Discharges from the noncommercial washing of vehicles.
         k.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows.
         l.   Discharges from swimming pools which contain less than one part
per million of chlorine.
         m.   Discharges resulting from firefighting activities.
         n.   Discharges from other sources of water such as springs.
         o.   Rinse water from street cleaning or sweeping operations.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the village administrator or by a
federal, state or county environmental protection agency as being necessary to
protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing of the storm water drainage system provided that if such
testing is being undertaken other than by the village or by a contractor
retained by or on behalf of the village, the village administrator must be
notified not less than five (5) business days in advance.
      4.   Any discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or discharge
order issued to the person making or responsible for the discharge, provided
that there is full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or
order and all other applicable laws, and provided that the village
administrator has granted written approval for the discharge into the storm
water drainage system.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: 1. Any drain, pipe, tile, conduit, or other means of
conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illegal
discharge to enter the storm water drainage system, including, but not limited
to, any means of conveyance which allow sewage, processed wastewater or wash
water to enter the storm water drainage system and any connections to the storm
water drainage system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether such
connection had previously been allowed, permitted or approved by the village;
and
      2.   Any drain, pipe, tile, conduit or other means of conveyance
connected from a commercial or industrial use to the storm water drainage
system which has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent records and
approved by the village.
NPDES PERMIT: A permit issued by the United States environmental protection
agency or the Illinois environmental protection agency which authorizes the
discharge of a pollutant into waters of the United States, whether the permit
is applicable on an individual, group or general areawide basis.
OCCUPANT: Any person who holds a leasehold interest, is otherwise a tenant, is
a licensee under a license which allows real estate or an improvement on real
estate to be used or occupied or who otherwise occupies real estate or an
improvement on real estate. A tenant is considered to be an occupant for
purposes of this chapter.
OWNER: Any person who holds all or part of a fee interest in real estate or an
improvement located on real estate, including buildings, apartments, and other
structures.
PERSON: Any individual person, corporation, firm, association, joint venture,
trust, partnership, unit of local government that is subject to the regulatory
authority of the village as exercised in this chapter or other legal entity
that is subject to the regulatory authority of the village as exercised in this
chapter.
POLLUTANT: Any "extremely hazardous substance" listed in appendix A of 40 CFR
part 355; any "hazardous substance" listed in 40 CFR section 302.4; any
petroleum product including crude oil or any fraction thereof, herbicides,
pesticides, flotables, and any noxious or offensive matter of any kind, and any
of the following chemicals, metals and compounds:
1,1,1-trichloroethane
1,1,2-trichloroethane
1,1-dichloroethylene
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene
1,2-dichloroethane
1,2-dichloropropane
2,4,5-TP (silvex)
2,4-D alachlor (lasso)
Aldicarb
Aldicarb sulfone
Aldicarb sulfoxide
Aldrin
Antifreeze
Antimony
Arsenic
Atrazine
Barium
Benzene
Benzo (A) pyrene
Beryllium
BHC-gamma (lindane)
Cadmium
Carbofuran
Carbon tetrachloride
Chlordane
Chromium
CIS-1,2-dichloroethylene
Cutting oils
Cyanide
Dalapon
DI(2-ethylhexyl) - adipate
DI(2-ethylhexyl) - phthalate
Dibromochloropropane (DBCP)
Dichloromethane
Dieldrindinoseb
Diquat
Endothall
Endrin
Ethylbenzene
Ethylene dibromide
Fluoride
Heptachlor
Heptachlor epoxide
Hexachlorobenzene
Hexachloro-cyclopentadiene
Leachate
Mercury
Methoxychlor
Mineral oil
Monochlorobenzene
O-dichlorobenzene
Oxamyl (vydate)
P-dichlorobenzene
Pentachlorophenol
Picloram
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB)
Selenium
Simazine
Styrene
Tetrachloroethylene
Thallium
Toluene
Toxaphene
Trans-1,2-dichloroethylene
Trichloroethylenexylene
Pollutant also includes wastewater, paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; human and animal wastes, yard waste, construction
materials and waste, refuse, rubbish, garbage, sewage, dissolved and
particulate metals, and fecal coliform and pathogens regardless of whether they
contain any of the chemicals, metals and compounds listed above.
PREMISES: Any lot or parcel of real estate or any part thereof, whether
improved or unimproved. If there is a structure on land, the term "premises"
includes both the structure and the lot or parcel of real estate on which the
structure is located.
STORM WATER: Any surface flow or runoff consisting entirely of water from any
form of natural precipitation.
STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The facilities owned and/or maintained by the
village which are used for the collection and conveyance of storm water. The
storm water drainage system consists of municipal streets, gutters, curbs,
inlets, culverts, retention ponds and areas, detention ponds and areas,
underground pipes, drains, drainage tile, ditches, and natural and humanmade or
altered drainage channels, and other appurtenant equipment and facilities.
STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the practices
and activities which are to be implemented on the premises identified in the
document and the actions to be taken by the owner and/or occupant of the
premises to eliminate or reduce illegal discharges to the storm water drainage
system.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Barrington, Illinois.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The village of Lake Barrington village administrator, or
his written designee.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than storm water discharged from
premises. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-2: APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   This chapter applies to all persons who own or who occupy premises in
the village of Lake Barrington. The owner(s) and occupant(s) of premises
subject to this chapter are jointly and severally responsible for complying
with the applicable provisions of this chapter. The failure of an owner or
occupant of premises to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall not
be excused because of a lack of knowledge as to such requirements or their
applicability.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the village administrator
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
village administrator, the village administrator's designees, and any other
person who is a peace officer shall have the authority to issue citations or
sign complaints on behalf of the village for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed on the
village administrator by this chapter may be delegated by the village
administrator to other employees, officers or agents of the village. (Ord.
2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-3: ILLEGAL DISCHARGES AND ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or recklessly take
any action, or intentionally or recklessly fail to take any action, which
results in the occurrence of an illegal discharge.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or otherwise
make an illicit connection. It shall be unlawful for any person, including, but
not limited to, the owner and occupant of premises, to maintain an illicit
connection. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-4: BLOCKING OR INHIBITING FLOW OF WATER IN STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM
PROHIBITED:
   A.   The owner and occupant of any premises on which any part of the storm
water drainage system is located or which contains municipal streets, gutters,
curbs, inlets, drains, culverts, ditches, retention and detention ponds,
underground pipes, drains, drainage tiles, ditches, natural and humanmade or
altered drainage channels, and other appurtenant facilities designed to collect
and convey storm water which are tributary to the storm water drainage system
shall keep and maintain such facilities free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation and any other obstacles that may pollute, contaminate or retard the
flow of water through such facilities.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit trash, garbage, debris,
landscape waste or any other item into a drain, culvert, ditch, retention or
detention pond, underground pipes or other facility that is part of the storm
water drainage system or to take any other action that results in the creation
of an obstacle which inhibits the flow of water in any drain, culvert, ditch,
retention or detention pond, underground pipes or other facility that is part
of the storm water drainage system. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-5: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS OF ILLEGAL DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANT:
   A.   Whenever an illegal discharge of a pollutant occurs, or is suspected to
have occurred, the owner and the occupant of the premises from where the
discharge originated shall immediately notify the village administrator and
provide the following information:
      1.   Any and all actions that have been and are intended to be taken to
halt the illegal discharge of the pollutant.
      2.   An estimate of the quantity of the pollutant discharged.
      3.   The methods that are to be used to clean up and otherwise remediate
the pollutant that was discharged.
   B.   The initial notification of an illegal discharge of a pollutant may be
made by telephoning the village administrator. If initial notification of an
illegal discharge of a pollutant is made by telephone, then a written
notification of the discharge containing the information required under
subsection A of this section must be made to the village administrator no later
than forty eight (48) hours after the discharge occurred or was first
discovered, whichever occurs last.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to give the notification of
an illegal discharge of a pollutant as provided in this section. (Ord. 2006-O-
10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-6: REMEDIATION OF ILLEGAL DISCHARGES OF POLLUTANTS:
   A.   If an illegal discharge of a pollutant occurs for which notification is
required under section
13-9-5 of this chapter, then the owner and occupant of the premises from which
the discharge originated shall be required to submit a plan to the village for
the remediation of the discharge.
   B.   Following the submission of the remediation plan provided for in
subsection A of this section, the village administrator shall schedule a
conference with the person(s) who submitted the remediation plan. The purpose
of the conference shall be to discuss and establish the procedures,
investigations, studies and compliance measures that the village deems
necessary in order to control and prevent any pollutant from coming into
contact with or being absorbed into ground water entering into the village's
potable water supply system, from flowing into Flint Creek, the Fox River or
any watercourse or body of water that is tributary to either or from otherwise
endangering the public health or safety as a result of the illegal discharge.
Following the conference, the village administrator shall issue a "remediation
order" which sets forth in writing the steps which the owner and occupant of
the premises on which the illegal discharge originated must take in order to
remediate the illegal discharge and the time periods within which such steps
must be taken.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of premises on which the
illegal discharge of a pollutant has occurred to fail to comply with a
remediation order.
   D.   The owner and occupant of premises from which an illegal discharge of a
pollutant has occurred shall be jointly and severally liable to reimburse the
village for any costs and expenses which the village may incur as the result of
the illegal discharge. Payment of any such costs and expenses must be made to
the village not more than forty five (45) days after the date that the village
issues an invoice for the costs and expenses.
   E.   If an owner or occupant fails to comply with a remediation order, or if
it otherwise becomes reasonably necessary for the village to remediate the
effects of the illegal discharge of a pollutant in order to prevent a pollutant
from coming into contact with or being absorbed into ground water, entering
into the village's potable water supply system, flowing into the Fox River or
Flint Creek or a watercourse or body of water that is tributary to either, or
otherwise endangering the public health or safety, then the village may take
whatever steps it determines in the reasonable exercise of its discretion are
necessary to remediate. The owner and any occupant of the premises on which the
illegal discharge of the pollutant occurred and any other person who may have
caused the illegal discharge of the pollutant shall be jointly and severally
liable to reimburse the village for the cost of any such remediation work
performed by or on behalf of the village. Such reimbursement shall be made not
less than forty five (45) days after the village issues an invoice for the cost
of the remediation work. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-7: STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN:
   A.   The owner and occupant of any premises where an industrial or
commercial activity occurs and where the illegal discharge of a pollutant has
originated at any time during the prior ten (10) years or for which an NPDES
permit has been issued shall be required to develop and implement a storm water
pollution prevention plan. The storm water pollution prevention plan shall
include, at a minimum, the following components:
      1.   Emergency contact information;
      2.   Description of activities, facilities, and any plant processes on
the premises;
      3.   Description of any stored pollutants and their locations, and
quantities;
      4.   Description of pollutant disposal practices;
      5.   Procedures for immediately notifying the village administrator of
any illegal discharge of a pollutant in accordance with subsection 13-9-5A of
this chapter; and
      6.   Procedures to prevent adverse impacts from accidental discharges of
pollutants into the storm water drainage system. Such procedures include, but
are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of pollutants, loading and unloading operations, control of storm
water runoff from the premises, worker training, building of containment
structures or equipment, measures for containing pollutants, and/or measures
and equipment for emergency response.
   B.   The storm water pollution prevention plan shall also contain such
additional information and components which the village administrator
determines in the reasonable exercise of his discretion, is necessary in order
to provide a plan of action which will protect against illegal discharges of
pollutants from occurring and/or which will reduce the likelihood that an
accidental discharge of a pollutant into the storm water drainage system might
occur.
   C.   A storm water pollution prevention plan shall be updated not less than
once every three (3) years. The updated storm water pollution prevention plan
shall be submitted to the village administrator, for the village
administrator's review and approval. The village administrator, may in the
reasonable exercise of his discretion, require that a storm water pollution
prevention plan for a premises be updated more frequently than once every three
(3) years if he determines that the storm water pollution prevention plan needs
to be updated in order to protect against any pollutant from coming into
contact with or being absorbed into ground water, entering into the village's
potable water supply system, flowing into Flint Creek, the Fox River or a
watercourse or body of water that is tributary to either, or otherwise
endangering the public health or safety as a result of the illegal discharge
and/or in order to reduce the likelihood that an illegal discharge of a
pollutant might occur. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If an alleged violation of this chapter occurs, the village
administrator shall send or otherwise cause a written "notice of violation" to
be delivered to the person alleged to have committed the violation. The "notice
of violation" shall describe the violation that is alleged to have occurred and
shall set a time and place for a compliance meeting. The compliance meeting
shall be attended by the village administrator and other appropriate
representatives of the village, the person alleged to have committed the
violation and any representatives or agents of the person alleged to have
committed the violation. The purpose of such a meeting shall be to establish
the procedures, investigations, testing studies and compliance measures as the
village deems necessary and desirable to control and prevent any further
violations of this chapter and to remediate the adverse effects of any prior
violations. During the compliance meeting the person alleged to have committed
the violation shall be given the opportunity to present evidence and otherwise
explain why such person is not responsible for the violation or should not be
required to remediate the adverse effects of the violation.
   B.   Following the completion of any procedures, testing, investigations or
studies provided for as a result of the compliance meeting or at such other
time as the village deems appropriate following the compliance meeting, the
village may issue an order which may require the person alleged to have
committed the violation or who is responsible for the violation to take certain
steps as described in the order to prevent violations from occurring in the
future and\or to remediate adverse effects resulting from the violation.
   C.   A failure to timely comply with an order issued in accordance with
subsection B of this section shall make the person to whom the order is
directed subject to fines and any other applicable penalties as provided for in
this code.
   D.   The enforcement procedures provided for in subsections A and B of this
section are not exclusive.
   E.   If there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, the village
shall be entitled to seek any remedy and to impose any penalty as may otherwise
be authorized by state law, by this code or by any other ordinance of the
village or which may otherwise be available to the village in law or in equity,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief.
   F.   If as a result of the illegal discharge of a pollutant, a pollutant has
or it is imminent that a pollutant will: 1) come into contact with or be
absorbed into ground water, 2) enter into the village's potable water supply
system, 3) flow into Flint Creek, the Fox River or a watercourse or body of
water that is tributary to either or 4) otherwise endanger the public health or
safety, then the village administrator may without prior notice, if it is
impracticable to give prior notice, disconnect, or cause to be disconnected,
from the storm water drainage system the premises where the illegal discharge
originated and any other premises which may need to be disconnected in order to
prevent, eliminate or reduce the danger to the public health or safety
resulting from the illegal discharge. If such disconnection occurs, then the
village administrator, shall as soon as practicable, notify the owners and
occupants of all premises that have been disconnected regarding the
disconnection and shall inform the owners and occupants of what steps must be
taken in order for the premises to be reconnected to the storm water drainage
system. If the village administrator disconnects or orders the disconnection of
premises from the storm water drainage system as provided in this subsection,
the owner and any occupant of the premises on which the illegal discharge of
the pollutant occurred and any other person who may have caused the illegal
discharge of the pollutant shall be liable to reimburse the village for any
costs incurred by or on behalf of the village as a result of the illegal
discharge, including, but not limited to, the cost of disconnecting or causing
the disconnection of premises from the storm water drainage system. Such
reimbursement shall be made not less than forty five (45) days after the
village issues an invoice for the costs the village incurred. (Ord. 2006-O-10,
4-4-2006)
13-9-9: VIOLATIONS OF STATE AND FEDERAL WATER QUALITY STANDARDS:
If the village is fined by the state of Illinois or the United State
environmental protection agency for a violation of water quality standards as
the result of the illegal discharge of a pollutant, then the village shall, in
addition to any other remedy which may be available, also be entitled to
recover from any person who caused the illegal discharge, including, but not
limited to, the owner and occupant of the premises where the illegal discharge
originated, or from any person whose failure to comply with the requirements of
this chapter resulted in the occurrence of the illegal discharge, the amount of
any such fine as well as any costs incurred by the village as a result of the
violation of the water quality standards, including, but not limited to, all
village legal, sampling and analytical testing costs. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-
2006)
13-9-10: COMPLIANCE WITH NPDES STORM WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with the NPDES permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
village administrator prior to allowing discharges to be made into the storm
water drainage system that originate from the activity or the premises for
which the NPDES permit was issued. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-2006)
13-9-11: FALSE INFORMATION OR STATEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
required to be filed with the village under this chapter. (Ord. 2006-O-10, 4-4-
2006)
13-9-12: PENALTIES AND LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
Any person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter, shall
upon conviction be fined for each violation and be subject to other penalties
as specified from time to time in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate violation. A separate violation shall be considered to
have occurred for each illegal discharge of a pollutant during any day. (Ord.
2008-O-05, 2-5-2008)
